# Add searches with search managers



The Splunk Web Framework represents a search using a search manager. You can think of a search manager like a wrapper around a search that includes the search query (for example, "index=main | head 100 | timechart count by sourcetype") and the properties of the search (for example, the search mode or the time range to search). The search manager handles the operation of the search (start, cancel, pause, etc.) and the lifetime of the search by listening for certain events, so you can monitor the progress of the search. Your searches are dynamic, too―when you change the search query or search properties, the search manager cancels the old search and starts a new one.

The Web Framework provides different types of search managers depending on the type of search you are creating:

    SearchManager manages a search job, where you provide a search query and additional properties.
        Provide a search query but do not include the "search" command. The query can include data-binding token variables, such as "$indexName$", to share values with other Splunk views. For more, see Bind data using tokens.
        Set properties to customize the search job, such as the earliest and latest times to search, whether to enable or disable preview results, and more.
        Set properties that indicate how to run the search, such as whether to automatically start a search when a page is loaded, or whether to retrieve cached search results when available.
    PostProcessManager manages a post-process search, which is based on a main search. Rather than running multiple searches that are variations on the same search, you can set up a base search manager and use additional post-process search managers to save search resources. The main search should pass results, not events, to the post-process search (for more about post-process search limitations and forming a base search, see Post-process searches in the Dashboards and Visualizations manual). This manager only takes a search query and the ID of the main search.
    SavedSearchManager manages a single saved report. This search manager behaves the same as SearchManager, except the search query and properties have been saved previously so you just provide the saved report name instead of a search query.

Each of these search managers has a number of properties, methods, and events―properties to customize the search, methods to manage the operation of the search (such as pausing or canceling), and events to indicate the search progress. For a list of properties, methods, and events, see the Splunk Web Framework Component Reference.

See the following features of search managers:

    Search properties
    Cached search results
    Search progress events
    Search results model

Examples

The following is an example of a search manager:

var mysearch = new SearchManager({
    id: "search1",
    preview: true,
    cache: true,
    status_buckets: 300,
    search: "index=_internal | head 1000 | stats count by sourcetype"
});

The following is an example of saved search manager:

var mysavedsearch = new SavedSearchManager({
    id: "savedsearch1",
    searchname: "Top five sourcetypes",
    app: "search"
});

The following is an example of a main search with two post-process search managers:

var searchmain = new SearchManager({
    id: "main-search",
    search: "index=_internal | head 100 | fields *",
    preview: true,
    cache: true
});

var searchpostproc1 = new PostProcessManager({
    id: "postprocsearch1",
    managerid: "main-search",
    search: " | stats count by sourcetype"
});

var searchpostproc2 = new PostProcessManager({
    id: "postprocsearch2",
    managerid: "main-search",
    search: " | fields sourcetype, source, host"
});


## Search properties




You can programmatically change properties on the search using the managername.settings Backbone model.

The following example shows different scenarios for updating a search manager—updating the search query, the search time range, and the value of the search manager when a timeline value changes.

<script>
    require([
        "splunkjs/mvc/searchmanager",
        "splunkjs/mvc/timelineview",
        "splunkjs/mvc/eventsviewerview",
        "splunkjs/mvc/simplexml/ready!"
    ], function(
        SearchManager,
        TimelineView,
        EventsViewerView
    ) {

        // Instantiate the search manager and views
        var mysearch = new SearchManager({
            id: "search1",
            search: "*", // Change this below
            preview: true,
            cache: true,
            status_buckets: 300
        });

        var mytimeline = new TimelineView ({
            id: "timeline1",
            managerid: "search1",
            el: $("#mytimeline")
        }).render();

        var myeventsviewer = new EventsViewerView ({
            id: "eviewer1",
            managerid: "search1",
            el: $("#myeventsviewer")
        }).render();

        // Update the search's time range
        mysearch.settings.set("earliest_time", "-12h");
        mysearch.settings.set("latest_time", "-6h");

        // Update the search query
        mysearch.settings.set("search", "index=_internal | head 2");

        // When the timeline changes, update the search manager
        mytimeline.on("change", function() {
        
        // Update the search manager with the timeline value
            mysearch.settings.set(mytimeline.val());
        });

    });
</script>

For more examples of setting search properties in views, see How to use search controls using SplunkJS Stack.



## Cached search results



A useful feature you can use with Search and SavedSearch managers is cached search results, which lets you display the results from an identical search job if one exists. Using cached results during development saves you time―rather than waiting for a long search to run each time you modify a page and reload it, you can display the cached results immediately.

In order for search jobs to be considered identical, the search jobs must have the same label, and all of the search parameters (such as the earliest_time and latest_time) and the search query must be exactly the same.

    Note  When caching is enabled for a search manager and an identical search job is found, the search still runs and is not cancelled because other users or views might be using it.

To use cached search results, set the search manager's cache property to one of the following values:

    true: Always use the results from a preexisting search job when possible.
    false: Never use results from preexisting search jobs.
    scheduled: Reuse any previously-run scheduled jobs (for saved reports only).
    n: The number of seconds indicating the maximum age a search job can be to use its results. Results from search jobs that are newer than n seconds will be used.



## Search progress events



After you've created a search manager, you can listen in on the events from the search (start, progress, done, cancelled, error, and failed) and handle them however you want. The search events return a properties object that contains the following fields: acl, author, content, id, links, name, published, and updated. The most interesting field is content, which is an object that contains all of the properties that are returned from the search job (such as eventCount and resultCount). For a complete list of these search job properties, see the Returned Values for the search/jobs endpoint in the REST API.

    Note  The search:done event is never fired for real-time searches because they never finish.

This JavaScript example runs a search and prints progress events to the console along with search job properties:

    require([
        "splunkjs/mvc/searchmanager",
        "splunkjs/mvc/simplexml/ready!"
    ], function(SearchManager) {

        // Instantiate the search manager
        var mysearch = new SearchManager({
            id: "search1",
            app: "search",
            cache: false,
            search: "index=_internal | head 50000" 
        });

        mysearch.on('search:failed', function(properties) {
            // Print the entire properties object
            console.log("FAILED:", properties);
        });

        mysearch.on('search:progress', function(properties) {
            // Print just the event count from the search job
            console.log("IN PROGRESS.\nEvents so far:", properties.content.eventCount);
        });

        mysearch.on('search:done', function(properties) {
            // Print the search job properties
            console.log("DONE!\nSearch job properties:", properties.content);
        });

    });



## Search results model



After a search has started running, you can access its data using one of the following results models:

    events: Events from the search before any transformations have been applied.
    preview: Preview results from a search in progress.
    results: Results from the search after transforms and processing has been completed.
    summary: Field summary information of results thus far, including statistics.

You can set which results model the search manager should display by setting the data property in the Splunk view. This code snippet shows how to retrieve "preview" results in a chart:

new ChartView({
    id: "previewchart",
    managerid: "mysearch1",
    type: "line",
    data: "preview",
    el: $("#previewchart")
}).render();

If you want to access the actual data from the results, retrieve a data object by calling the data method on the search manager and specifying which type of results model you want from the job. Optionally you can also specify a count (the number of results to retrieve) and an offset (the index of the first entity to return). This snippet shows how to retrieve a search manager "mysearch1", then retrieve 25 preview results beginning with the tenth:

var mainSearch = splunkjs.mvc.Components.get("mysearch1");
var myResults = mainSearch.data("preview", { count: 25, offset: 10 });

Once you have a data object, you can access the rows of results. You can also access the Backbone collection. This example continues from the previous one, showing how to access the results and display these objects in the console:

...
myResults.on("data", function() {
    // The full data object
    console.log(myResults.data());

    // Indicates whether the results model has data
    console.log("Has data? ", myResults.hasData());

    // The results rows
    console.log("Data (rows): ", myResults.data().rows);

    // The Backbone collection
    console.log("Backbone collection: ", myResults.collection());
});




## How to add and modify a search manager



You can create different types of search managers depending on the type of search you want:

    To set up a search job, create a SearchManager.
    To use a saved report, create a SavedSearchManager.
    To set up a post-process search based on another search, create a PostProcessManager.

Here's an example of how to create a manager for a search job in JavaScript.

    require([
        "splunkjs/mvc/searchmanager",
        "splunkjs/mvc/simplexml/ready!"
    ], function(SearchManager) {

    new SearchManager({
        id: "mysearch1",
        earliest_time: "-24h@h",
        latest_time: "now",
        search: "index=_internal | head 100 | stats count by source"
    });
});

For more about working with search properties, progress events, and the search results model, see Search managers.

For a list of the different properties, methods, and events you can use with search managers, see the Splunk Web Framework Component Reference.



## How to add search managers to an HTML dashboard



If you want to add a new visualization that displays the events or results of a search, you'll need to add the search to your dashboard separately as a SplunkJS Stack search manager. A search manager encapsulates the search job, which includes the search query and search properties, and handles the operation and lifetime of the search. The type of search manager depends on the type of search:

    SearchManager corresponds to an inline search.
    SavedSearchManager corresponds to a saved report.
    PostProcessManager corresponds to a post-process search.

The search manager libraries are imported by default, so you won't need to add any requirements.

    Open your HTML dashboard in a text editor or in Splunk's Source Editor (see How to convert a Splunk dashboard to HTML to learn how).
    Find the comment "// Create searches" in the code (see the Walkthrough of the code for a converted HTML dashboard for details).
    To add an inline search, add the following block:

    var REPLACE_ID = new SearchManager({
        "id": "REPLACE_ID",
        "search": "REPLACE_QUERY",
        // "earliest_time": "0",
        // "latest_time": "now",
        // "app": utils.getCurrentApp(),
        // "cache": "true",
        // "cancelOnUnload": true
    }, {tokens: true});

    Replace these variables for the required properties:
        REPLACE_ID: Provide a unique ID for this search manager. Use the same value for both instances.
        REPLACE_QUERY: Provide a search query.

    You can also set additional properties (some common ones are included but commented out). For more, see the Splunk Web Framework Component Reference.
    To add a saved report, add the following block:

    var REPLACE_ID = new SavedSearchManager({
        "id": "REPLACE_ID",
        "searchname": "REPLACE_REPORT_NAME",
        // "app": utils.getCurrentApp(),
        // "cache": "scheduled",
        // "cancelOnUnload": true
    }, {tokens: true});

    Replace these variables for the required properties:
        REPLACE_ID: Provide a unique ID for this search manager. Use the same value for both instances.
        REPLACE_REPORT_NAME: Provide the name of a saved report.

    You can also set additional properties (some common ones are included but commented out). For more, see the Splunk Web Framework Component Reference.
    To add a post-process search, add the following block:

    var REPLACE_ID = new PostProcessManager({
        "id": "REPLACE_ID",
        "managerid": "REPLACE_SEARCHID",
        "search": "REPLACE_QUERY"
    }, {tokens: true});

    Replace these variables for the required properties:
        REPLACE_ID: Provide a unique ID for this search manager. Use the same value for both instances.
        REPLACE_SEARCHID: Provide the ID of the base search.
        REPLACE_QUERY: Provide a post-process search query.

The next step is to add a visualization to display the data from the search manager. For more, see How to add a visualization to an HTML dashboard.

