# Splunk SDK for JavaScript Examples

Once you have Splunk Enterprise up and running, you've set up the requirements and installed the SDK, you're ready to get your feet wet with the Splunk SDK for JavaScript examples.

- [Client-side examples](http://dev.splunk.com/view/javascript-sdk/SP-CAAAEDC) run in a web browser against your own instance of Splunk. They range in complexity from simple "Hello, world" examples, to UI examples that use UI controls and visualizations, to a complex example that mimics the core functionality of Splunk.
- [Server-side examples](http://dev.splunk.com/view/javascript-sdk/SP-CAAAEDA) run at the command line. There are simple "Hello, world" examples that use hard-coded parameters, and more complex examples that tackle working with searches, jobs, and configuration files.

## Example client-side script

The following sample HTML uses the Splunk SDK for JavaScript:

```js
<script type="text/javascript" src="splunk.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8">
    var service = new splunkjs.Service({username: "admin", password: "yourpassword"});
    service.login(function(err, success) {
        if (err) {
            throw err;
        }
        console.log("Login was successful: " + success);
        service.jobs().fetch(function(err, jobs) {
            var list = jobs.list();
            for(var i = 0; i < list.length; i++) {
                console.log("Job " + i + ": " + list[i].sid);
            }
        });
    });
</script>
```

If you want to run multiple instances of the SDK on the same page, or your code is on a page that you don't control, you can use the noConflict() method:

```js
var MySplunk = Splunk.noConflict();
```

This method returns control of the global Splunk variable to the previous owner, and returns an instance of the SDK to you.

## Example server-side script

The following shows an example of a script that uses the Splunk SDK for JavaScript:

```js
var splunkjs = require('splunk-sdk');
var service = new splunkjs.Service({username: "admin", password: "yourpassword"});
service.login(function(err, success) {
    if (err) {
        throw err;
    }
    console.log("Login was successful: " + success);
    service.jobs().fetch(function(err, jobs) {
        var list = jobs.list();
        for(var i = 0; i < list.length; i++) {
            console.log("Job " + i + ": " + list[i].sid);
        }
    });
});
```

## Browser (client) examples in the Splunk SDK for JavaScript

The Splunk® SDK for JavaScript includes several examples that run in the browser with your own instance of Splunk, and are located in the /splunk-sdk-javascript/examples/browser directory. Node.js is required to run these examples. We recommend opening the developer console while you run the examples to see what requests the Splunk SDK for JavaScript is making.

- The Hello World examples (/helloworld/index.html) contain simple examples that focus on one feature and require little or no configuration, such as listing apps, listing saves searches and their queries, and creating different types of searches and getting their results. Some examples use the Splunk.Async module to make asynchronous control-flow easier.
- The UI example (/UI/index.html) lets you access the Timeline control and Charting control, the same ones that Splunk Web uses in version 4.3. Go ahead and see your data by looking at your event timeline and charting your queries.
- The Visualization example (/Viz/index.html) shows how to integrate with third-party visualization tools:
  - Google Charts, a simple but powerful charting library from Google.
  - Rickshaw, a time series visualization library based on d3. (This doesn't work in Internet Explorer 9 though.)
- MiniSplunk is a complex full-application example that mimics much of the core functionality of Splunk. You can search, manage jobs, and even see a map of the search results that have geo data.

These examples work around a couple of issues—because Splunkd is not on the same host as the web server that serves your page, and because of the browser's Single Origin Policy, we provide all the parameters to the sample web server, which proxies them to Splunkd. (That's what those ProxyHttp lines are all about. See Dependencies and cross-domain communication for more.)

### Run the Index.html example

To start the development webserver and display the example Index.html page in your browser, open a command prompt in the /splunk-sdk-javascript directory and enter:

```bash
node sdkdo examples
```

Or, to start the server manually enter:

```bash
node sdkdo runserver
```

And then in a browser, open <http://localhost:6969/examples/browser/index.html>.

## Command line (server) examples in the Splunk SDK for JavaScript

The Splunk SDK for JavaScript includes several command-line examples, which are located in the /splunk-sdk-javascript/examples/node directory.

Run the examples with Node.js and be sure to include any arguments that are required by the example:

```bash
node examplename.js --username "admin" --password "yourpassword"
```

You can omit the login arguments if you saved your credentials in the .splunkrc file.

To list available commands and arguments for an example, use the --help argument:

```bash
node examplename.js --help
```

You also can get help for a specific command:

```bash
node examplename.js commandname --help
```

### Run examples

Here are some different command-line examples to show how to use the JavaScript examples with Node.js. First, make sure Splunk is running. Then, open a command prompt in the /splunk-sdk-javascript/examples/node directory.

- List Splunk apps
- List saved searches
- Run different types of searches
- Run a simple log handler
- Work with search jobs
- Run a search and display simplified results

### List Splunk apps

The Apps.js and Apps_async.js examples list your Splunk apps--just enter one of these commands:

```bash
node helloworld/apps.js
node helloworld/apps_async.js
```

### List saved searches

The Savedsearches.js and Savedsearches_async.js examples list your saved searches and the search query for each--enter one of these commands:

```bash
node helloworld/savedsearches.js
node helloworld/savedsearches_async.js
```

The Savedsearches_create.js example creates a simple saved search, called "My Awesome Saved Search", with a hard-coded search string. To run this example, enter:

```bash
node helloworld/savedsearches_create.js
```

### Run different types of searches

The Search*.js examples run different types of searches with hard-coded search strings:

- The Search_normal.js example runs a normal search (exec_mode=normal). When the job is done, the example prints the job statistics and search results. To run this example, enter:
    ```bash
    node helloworld/search_normal.js
    ```
- The Search_blocking.js example runs a blocking search (exec_mode=blocking). The example doesn't return until the job is done, and then it prints job statistics and search results. To run this example, enter:
    ```bash
    node helloworld/search_blocking.js
    ```
- The Search_oneshot.js example runs a oneshot search (exec_mode=oneshot). The example doesn't return until the job is done, and then it returns only the search results (no search job ID), and prints the results. To run this example, enter:
    ```bash
    node helloworld/search_oneshot.js
    ```
- The Search_realtime.js example runs a real-time search that collects statistics about all events from now to infinity (earliest_time=rt and latest_time=rt). Once the job is created, it polls the results every second and prints them. Because a real-time search is never really done, the example only iterates five times. To run this example, enter:
    ```bash
    node helloworld/search_realtime.js
    ```

### Run a simple log handler

The log.js example shows how to send data to Splunk over HTTP from within your application by using the Service.log method. A utility Logger class encapsulates various logging levels so we can simply call logger.log, logger.error, and so on.

```bash
node helloworld/log.js
```

### Work with search jobs

The Jobs.js example manages search jobs from the command line. You can list search jobs, create new ones, get results and events, and cancel search jobs.

This command lists all search jobs:

```bash
node jobs.js list
```

If successful, your output should look something like this:

```bash
~\splunk-sdk-javascript\examples\node> node jobs.js list
  Job 1 sid: 1332203612.132
  Job 2 sid: scheduler__admin__search_d2VhdGhlciBzdW1tYXJ5IEpTMg_at_1332289800_f8edda5eb76a0645
  Job 3 sid: scheduler__admin__search_V2VhdGhlciBTdW1tYXJ5_at_1332289800_73889385ef9f8f24
  Job 4 sid: rt_1332290588.37
  Job 5 sid: rt_1332290588.38
==============
```

This command lists the properties of a specific search job:

```bash
node jobs.js list 1332203612.132
```

To create a search job, you need at a minimum a search string. But you can also include optional arguments. Here's an example that creates a search job with earliest and latest times:

```bash
node jobs.js create --search "search * | head 20" --earliest_time "2012-03-19T23:17:00.000-07:00" --latest_time "2012-03-20T12:17:00.000-07:00"
```

This example retrieves results from a specific search job in CSV format, skipping the first 50 results:

```bash
node jobs.js results --json_mode csv  --offset 50 1332203612.132
```

This example previews 10 results for a specific search job:

```bash
node jobs.js preview --count 10 1332203612.132
```

This example retrieves 20 events for a specific search job, displaying only the artist and song fields:

```bash
node jobs.js events --count 20 --field_list "artist, song" 1332203612.132
```

This cancels a specific search job:

```bash
node jobs.js cancel scheduler__admin__search_UmFkaW8gLSBUb3AgU29uZ3M_at_1332205200_5762e78afd96ea83
```

Remember, you can get help for any individual commands (for example, enter: node jobs.js create --help). If you want more details about these arguments, see the corresponding REST endpoint documentation:

- For jobs.js create, see the POST search/jobs endpoint.
- For jobs.js results, see the GET search/jobs/{search_id}/results endpoint.
- For jobs.js preview, see the GET search/jobs/{search_id}/results_preview endpoint.
- For jobs.js events, see the GET search/jobs/{search_id}/events endpoint.

### Run a search and display simplified results

The Search.js example creates normal or oneshot searches, then prints the results to the console in JSON format. The Results.js example simplifies the output for a nicer display. You can use the search.js example alone, or pipe the results to Results.js.

This example searches everything in the "test" index over 24 hours, displays 10 results, and shows the progress of the search:

```bash
node search.js --search "search index=test" --earliest_time "2012-03-15T00:00:00.000-07:00" --latest_time "2012-03-16T00:00:00.000-07:00" --count 10 --verbose
```

This example shows how to runs a search and display simplified results:

```bash
node search.js --search "search * | head 10" | node results.js
```

## Unit tests in the Splunk SDK for JavaScript

A great place to look for examples of how to use the Splunk® SDK for JavaScript is in the unit tests. These are the same tests that we used to validate the core SDK library. The SDK includes several unit tests for each component.

All development activities are managed by a helper script called sdkdo. To run the tests at the command line, go to the /splunk-sdk-javascript directory, then:

- To run all tests, enter the following command:
    ```bash
    node sdkdo tests
    ```
- To run the HTTP and the Async tests, enter:
    ```bash
    node sdkdo tests http,async
    ```
- To run the browser tests, enter:
    ```bash
    node sdkdo tests-browser
    ```