# Getting started with the Splunk SDK for JavaScript

Getting started with the Splunk® SDK for JavaScript is easy:

1. Get Splunk Enterprise
2. Check prerequisites
3. Install the SDK
4. Save your connection info (optional)
5. Use the helper script (optional)

In addition, you should read up on dependencies and special considerations when communicating across domains.

Next steps

Once you've set up the SDK, try it out

- Try the examples:
  - Run the client-side examples in a browser.
  - Run the server-side examples at a command line.
- Run the unit tests

For more in-depth explanations of some of the more common uses for the Splunk SDK for JavaScript, see the How-tos:

- How to connect to splunkd and log in.
- How to list, create, and run saved searches.
- How to list search jobs, create new jobs by running different search types, and- display search results in different formats.
- How to add, view, and modify your indexes.
- How to add, view, and modify the users of the Splunk system to control access to- Splunk.

## Get Splunk Enterprise

You need Splunk® Enterprise 4.2 or later to use the Splunk SDK for JavaScript. If you haven't already, download Splunk Enterprise : <http://www.splunk.com/download>.

From here on out, we're assuming you know a little about using Splunk Enterprise already, have some data indexed, and maybe saved a search or two. But if you're not there yet and need some more Splunk Enterprise education, we have you covered:

- If you want a deeper description of Splunk Enterprise's features, see the Splunk Enterprise documentation.
- Try the Tutorial in the Splunk Enterprise documentation for a step-by-step walkthrough of using Splunk Enterprise with some sample data.
- The Splunk SDKs are built as a layer over the Splunk Enterprise REST API. While you don't need to know the REST API to use this SDK, you might find it useful to read the [REST API Overview](http://dev.splunk.com/view/rest-api-overview/SP-CAAADP8) or browse the [Splunk Enterprise REST API Reference](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/RESTREF/RESTcontents).

## Requirements for Splunk SDK for JavaScript

Here's what you need to get going with the Splunk SDK for JavaScript:

- Splunk Enterprise
- Node.js
- Compatible browser
- JSON support
- Splunk SDK for JavaScript

### Splunk Enterprise

If you haven't already installed Splunk Enterprise, download it here. For more information about installing and running Splunk Enterprise and system requirements, see the Splunk Enterprise Installation Manual.

### Node.js

Node.js is required for server-side scripting, building files, running server and client examples, running unit tests, and generating documentation. Download Node.js and install the version for your platform.

> Notes
> - The current version of the Splunk SDK for JavaScript requires Node.js version 0.10.x, 0.12.x, or 4+. Using the SDK with earlier versions will no longer work. If you are upgrading to the latest version of the SDK, be sure to update your install of Node.js as well.
> - Node.js version 0.10.x and later also includes the Node Package Manager (NPM), which is required for the SDK.

### Compatible browser

We've tested the Splunk SDK for JavaScript with the following browsers, though older browsers will probably work:

- Apple Safari (latest)
- Google Chrome (latest)
- Microsoft Internet Explorer (latest) or Microsoft Edge
- Mozilla Firefox (latest)

### JSON support

When running in a web browser, the SDK's only dependency is JSON support. If your site supports older browsers, you might need to include JSON handling for compatibility. To learn more, see the JSON website.

### Splunk SDK for JavaScript

For information about installing the Splunk SDK for JavaScript, see the next topic, Install the Splunk SDK for JavaScript.

## Install the Splunk SDK for JavaScript

After you've taken care of the prerequisites, you're ready to install the components of the Splunk® SDK for JavaScript.

- Get the SDK.
- Install for client-side scripting.
- Install for server-side scripting.
- Use the SDK components on your web page.
- Install the SDK for Node.js apps.

### Get the SDK

Get the Splunk SDK for JavaScript: download the SDK as a ZIP file and extract the files.

Want to verify your download? Download MD5. Download SHA-512.

### Client-side installation

The Splunk SDK for JavaScript includes pre-built client-side files that run in a web browser. To install the client-side files, you just need to copy them to your site and include them in your code. The client-side SDK also uses the jQuery library, so you also need jquery.min.js.

#### To install the client-side files

1. Copy the /splunk-sdk-javascript/client directory to your site.
2. Copy jquery.min.js, which is included with the SDK in /splunk-sdk-javascript/examples/browser/resources, to your site.
3. Include one of the following \<script\> tags in your client-side code, specifying the correct path to the files on your site:
    ```html
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/YOUR_PATH/splunk.js"></script>
    ```
    OR :
    ```html
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/YOUR_PATH/splunk.min.js"></script>
    ```
    This tag creates a global variable called splunkjs, which is the root of the SDK. No other global variables are introduced.
4. Include a \<script\> tag specifying the correct path to the jquery.min.js file:
    ```html
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/YOUR_PATH/jquery.min.js"></script>
    ```

### Server-side installation

The Splunk SDK for JavaScript requires Node.js for server-side scripting. To use the Splunk SDK for JavaScript in your own Node.js programs, install the server-side files and require them in your script.

#### To install the server-side files

1. At the command line, go to your project's directory and enter:
    ```bash
    npm install splunk-sdk
    ```
2. Use the require() function in your script as follows:
    ```bash
    var splunkjs = require('splunk-sdk');
    ```

### Use the Splunk SDK for JavaScript components on your web page

To use the components from the Splunk SDK for JavaScript on your web page, copy the /splunk-sdk-javascript/client directory to your web server. Then, include the splunk.js or splunk.min.js file from this directory in your code.

For example, include one of the following tags in your code:

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="/yourpath/splunk.js"></script>
```

OR :

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="/yourpath/splunk.min.js"></script>
```

You can also include the UI components, such as the Timeline and Charting controls. These UI component files (splunk.ui.timeline and splunk.ui.charting) are also in the /splunk-sdk-javascript/client directory.

### Install the Splunk SDK for JavaScript for Node.js apps

> Note: The Splunk SDK for JavaScript v1.2.3 and later requires Node.js version 0.8.x or 0.10.x.

If you want to use the Splunk SDK for JavaScript with your Node.js programs, install the SDK by running npm in your project's directory as follows:

```bash
npm install splunk-sdk
```

Then, to include the Splunk SDK for JavaScript, use the require function in your code:

```js
var splunkjs = require('splunk-sdk');
```

## Save your connection info

예제 및 유닛 테스트를 위해 Splunk® Enterprise 호스트, 포트 및 구성표 (HTTP 또는 HTTPS) 정보 및 로그인 자격 증명을 저장할 수 있습니다. 샘플을 실행할 때마다이 정보를 지정할 필요가 없으므로이를 실행하기가 더 쉬울 수도 있습니다.

Splunk에 연결하기 위해 서버 측 SDK 예제 및 유닛 테스트는 Splunk에 대한 호스트, 포트 및 로그인 자격 증명의 값을 지정하는 명령 줄 인수를 사용합니다. 개 _ 중에 편의상 .splunkrc라는 텍스트 파일에이 인수를 키 - 값 쌍으로 저장할 수 있습니다. 그런 다음 명령 줄에서 이러한 인수를 지정하지 않으면 SDK 예제 및 단위 테스트에서 .splunkrc 파일의 값을 사용합니다.

> Important : .splunkrc 파일에 사용자 로그인 자격 증명을 저장하는 것은 개발 중에 만 편리하게 사용할 수 있습니다. 이 파일은 Splunk 플랫폼의 일부가 아니므로 프로덕션을위한 사용자 자격 증명을 저장하는 데 사용해서는 안됩니다. 그리고 자격 증명의 보안이 염려되는 경우 .splunkrc 파일에 저장하는 대신 명령 프롬프트에 입력하면됩니다.

### To set up a .splunkrc file

1. Create a new text file and name it .splunkrc.
  Windows might display an error when you try to name the file because ".splunkrc" looks like a nameless file with just an extension. You can use the Command Prompt window to create this file by going to the C:\Users\currentusername directory and entering the following at the prompt: 
    ```bash
    Notepad.exe .splunkrc
    ```
    A dialog box appears, asking whether you want to create a new file. Click Yes, and then continue creating the file.
2. In the new file, paste in the following. Update any lines that contain information that differs from your Splunk Enterprise instance. #Splunk host (default: localhost)
    ```properties
    host=localhost
    # Splunk admin port (default: 8089)
    port=8089
    # Splunk username
    username=admin
    # Splunk password
    password=yourpassword
    # Access scheme (default: https)
    scheme=https
    # Splunk version number
    version=5.0
    ```
3. Save the file in the current user's home directory.
    On OS X or Linux
    ```bash
    ~/.splunkrc
    ```

    On Windows

    ```bash
    C:\Users\currentusername\.splunkrc
    ```

예제와 단위 테스트는 추가 연결 인수가 필요없이 실행할 준비가 되었습니다!

> Notes
> - 버전 인수는 Splunk 5.0 이상에서 필요합니다.
> - 로그인 자격 증명을 .splunkrc 파일에 저장하는 것은 개발 중에 편의상 만 가능합니다.이 파일은 Splunk 플랫폼의 일부가 아니며 프로덕션을위한 사용자 자격 증명을 저장하는 데 사용해서는 안됩니다. 그리고 자격 증명의 보안이 염려되는 경우 명령 줄에 입력하면 .splunkrc 파일을 사용하지 않아도됩니다.
> - .splunkrc 파일의 형식이 릴리스간에 변경되었습니다. 미리보기 또는 베타 버전의 SDK를 사용하는 경우 최신 필드 중 일부가 인식되지 않을 수 있으며 예제를 실행하는 동안 오류가 표시 될 수 있습니다. 최신 버전의 SDK로 업데이트하거나 앱, 소유자 및 버전 필드를 주석 처리 할 수 있습니다.

## Use the development helper script

모든 개발 활동은 SDK에 포함 된 sdkdo라는 도우미 스크립트로 관리됩니다.

명령 및 옵션 목록을 보려면 `/splunk-sdk-javascript` 디렉토리에서 명령 프롬프트를 열고 다음 명령을 입력하십시오.

```bash
node sdkdo --help
```

If you change the core SDK and you want to rebuild the browser files, enter:

```bash
node sdkdo compile
```

As a shortcut for typing "node sdkdo", you can simply use ./sdkdo on OS X and Linux, or .\sdkdo on Windows.

## Dependencies and cross-domain communication

When running in a web browser, the SDK's only dependency is JSON support.
If your site supports older browsers, you might need to include JSON handling for compatibility.
To learn more, see the JSON website.

Due to [Same Origin Policy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Same_origin_policy) (SOP) browser security policies, cross-domain messaging is not possible when you use the file:// protocol, so you must serve the HTML pages from a server.

For running the SDK browser examples, the SDK includes a simple server that requires Node.js (to see the implementation, refer to the /splunk-sdk-javascript/bin/cli.js file). To start the server, enter:

```bash
node sdkdo runserver
```

You can also use this simple server for development. But for production, you could use a proxy on your web server to forward requests to Splunk:

```js
var http = new splunkjs.ProxyHttp( "/proxy" );
```

Because Splunk is probably not running on your web server, you'll also need to configure your web server to handle these proxy requests and delegate them to your Splunk's host and management port.

For example, on an Apache web server, you could add these two lines to the httpd.conf file:

```properties
SSLProxyEngine On
ProxyPass   /proxy/             https://localhost:8089/
```