# Scripted Authentication

## Set up user authentication with external systems

Your options for user authentication are:

- [Splunk authentication](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.3.0/Security/Setupbuilt-inauthentication)
- [LDAP](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.3.0/Security/SetUpUserAuthenticationWithLDAP)
- [Single sign-on](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.3.0/Security/HowSAMLSSOworks)
- A scripted authentication API for use with an external authentication system, such as PAM or RADIUS, described in this section.

> Important: Splunk authentication takes precedence over any external systems.

This is the order in which Splunk software authenticates a user for LDAP:

1. Splunk authentication or SSO.
2. LDAP or scripted authentication (if enabled). For more information about LDAP, see "[Set up user authentication with LDAP](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.3.0/Security/SetUpUserAuthenticationWithLDAP)".

## How scripted authentication works

In scripted authentication, a user-generated Python script serves as the middleman between the Splunk server and an external authentication system such as PAM or RADIUS.

The API consists of a few functions that handle communications between Splunk software and the authentication system. You need to create a script with handlers that implement those functions.

To integrate your authentication system with Splunk Enterprise, make sure the authentication system is running and then do the following:

1. Create a Python authentication script. See "[Create the authentication script](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.3.0/Security/Createtheauthenticationscript)" for the procedure.
2. Enable your script by editing authentication.conf to specify scripted authentication and associated settings. See "[Edit authentication.conf](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.3.0/Security/Editauthenticationconf)" for the procedure.

## Examples

Splunk provides several example authentication scripts and associated configuration files, including one set for RADIUS and another for PAM. There is also a simple script called `dumbScripted.py`, which focuses on the interaction between the script and Splunk deployments.

You can use an example script and configuration file as the starting point for creating your own script. You must modify them for your environment.

You can find these examples in `$SPLUNK_HOME/share/splunk/authScriptSamples/`. That directory also contains a README file with information on the examples, as well as additional information on setting up the connection between Splunk Enterprise and external systems.

__Important__ : These scripts are provided as examples that you can modify or extend as needed. They are not supported and there is no guarantee that they will fully meet your authentication and security needs.

## Create the authentication script

To integrate your authentication system with your Splunk deployment, make sure the authentication system is running and then do the following:

1. Create a Python authentication script. See "[Create a Python script](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.3.0/Security/Createtheauthenticationscript#Create_a_Python_script)" in this topic for the procedure.
2. Test the new script. See "[Test the script](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.3.0/Security/Createtheauthenticationscript#Test_the_script)" in this topic for the procedure.
3. Enable your script by editing authentication.conf to specify scripted authentication and associated settings. See "[Edit authentication.conf](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.3.0/Security/Editauthenticationconf)" for the procedure.

## Create a Python script

You must create a Python script that implements these authentication functions:

- userLogin
- getUserInfo
- getUsers

The Splunk server will call these functions as necessary, either to authenticate user login or to obtain information on a user's roles.

The script can optionally also include a handler for this function:

- getSearchFilter

This table summarizes the authentication functions, their arguments, and their return values:

<table>
<tr><td width=30%>Function</td><td width=30%>Description</td><td width=30%>Argument string</td><td width=40%>Return value string</tr>
<tr><td>userLogin</td><td>Login with user credentials.</td><td>--username=&lt;username&gt;<br/>
--password=&lt;password&gt;<br/>
(values passed one per line over stdin)
</td><td>fail<br/>
(safely passed over stdout)</td></tr>
<tr><td>getUserInfo</td><td>Return a user's information, including name and role(s).</td><td>--username=&lt;username&gt;</td><td>--status=success|fail 
--userInfo=&lt;userId&gt;;&lt;username&gt;;&lt;realname&gt;;&lt;roles&gt;
Note the following:

userInfo must specify a semicolon-delimited list.
&lt;userId&gt; is deprecated; you should return just the associated semicolon.
&lt;username&gt; is required.
&lt;realname&gt; is optional, but its semicolon is required.
&lt;roles&gt; is required. To return multiple roles, use colons to separate the roles.
For example: admin:power
This example returns just the roles for a user named "docsplunk":
        --status=success --userInfo=;docsplunk;;admin:power
</td></tr>        
<tr><td>getUsers</td><td>Return information for all Splunk users.</td><td>none</td><td>
--status=success|fail 
--userInfo=&lt;userId&gt;;&lt;username&gt;;&lt;realname&gt;;&lt;roles&gt; 
--userInfo=&lt;userId&gt;;&lt;username&gt;;&lt;realname&gt;;&lt;roles&gt; 
--userInfo=&lt;userId&gt;;&lt;username&gt;;&lt;realname&gt;;&lt;roles&gt; ... 
Note the following:

See getUserInfo for information on the syntax to use to return each user's information.
Separate each user's information with a space.
&lt;roles&gt; is required. To return multiple roles, use colons to separate the roles.
For example: admin:power
</tr>
<tr><td>getSearchFilter</td><td>Optional. Returns the filters applied specifically to this user, along with those applied to the user's roles. The filters are OR'd together.</td><td>--username=&lt;username&gt;</td><td>
--status=success|fail --search_filter=&lt;filter&gt;
--search_filter=&lt;filter&gt; ... 
Note: User-based search filters are optional and not recommended. A better approach is to assign search filters to roles and then assign users to the appropriate roles.

For more information, see "Use the getSearchFilter function to filter at search time"
</td>
</tr>
</table>

See the example scripts for detailed information on how to implement these functions.

## Test the script

Since the communication between your Splunk deployment and the script occurs via `stdin` and `stdout`, you can test the script interactively in your command shell. Be sure to send one argument per line and end each function call with an EOF (Ctrl-D).

Test each function individually, using this pattern:

```bash
> python [script] [function name]
[pass arguments here, one per line]
[send eof, with Ctrl-D]
[output appears here, check that it's correct]
>
```

The following example shows a debugging session that does some simple testing of a fictional script called "example.py", with two users "alice" and "bob". "alice" is a member of the "admin" and "super" roles, and "bob" is a member of the "user" role.

```bash
> python example.py userLogin
--username=alice
--password=correctpassword
<send an EOF>
--status=success
> python example.py userLogin
--username=bob
--password=wrongpassword
<send an EOF>
--status=fail
> python example.py getUsers
<no arguments for this function, send an EOF> 
--status=success --userInfo=bob;bob;bob;user --userInfo=alice;alice;alice;admin:super
> python example.py getUserInfo
--username=bob
<send an EOF>
--status=success --userInfo=bob;bob;bob;user
> python example.py getUserInfo
--username=userdoesnotexist
<send an EOF>
--status=fail
>
```

__Important__ : This is just an example of how to go about testing a script. It does not attempt to perform exhaustive debugging of any real script.

## Edit authentication.conf

To integrate your authentication system with your Splunk deployment, make sure the authentication system is running and then do the following:

1. Create and test a Python authentication script. See "[Create the authentication script](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.3.0/Security/Createtheauthenticationscript)" for the procedure.
2. Edit authentication.conf to enable your authentication script. See "[Enable your script](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.3.0/Security/Editauthenticationconf#Enable_your_script)" in this topic.
3. Edit authentication.conf to set your cache duration. See "[Set cache durations](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.3.0/Security/Editauthenticationconf#Set_cache_durations)" in this topic.

## Enable your script

Once you create a Python script to implement authentication, you update the `authentication.conf` in `$SPLUNK_HOME/etc/system/local/` to enable your script. You can also copy and edit a sample `authentication.conf` from `$SPLUNK_HOME/share/splunk/authScriptSamples/`.

Specify Scripted as your authentication type under the `[authentication]` stanza heading:

```properties
[authentication]
authType = Scripted
authSettings = script
```

Set script variables under the `[script]` stanza heading. For example:

```properties
[script]
scriptPath = $SPLUNK_HOME/bin/python $SPLUNK_HOME/bin/<scriptname.py>
```

## Set cache durations

To significantly speed authentication performance when using scripted authentication, enable Splunk authentication caching. You do so by adding the optional `[cacheTiming]` stanza. Each script function (except `getSearchFilter`) has a settable `cacheTiming` attribute, which turns on caching for that function and specifies its cache duration. For example, to specify the cache timing for the `getUserInfo` function, use the `getUserInfoTTL` attribute. Caching for a function occurs only if its associated attribute is specified.

The `cacheTiming` settings specify the frequency at which Splunk software calls your script to communicate with the external authentication system. You can specify time in seconds (s), minutes (m), hours (h), days (d), etc. Typically, you'll limit the cache frequency to seconds or minutes. If a unit is not specified, the value defaults to seconds. So, a value of "5" is equivalent to "5s".

This example shows typical values for the caches:

```properties
[cacheTiming]
userLoginTTL    = 10s
getUserInfoTTL  = 1m
getUsersTTL     = 2m
```

You'll want to set `userLoginTTL` to a low value, since this determines how long user login/password validity is cached.

To refresh all caches immediately, use the CLI command reload auth:

```bash
./splunk reload auth
```

Note: This command does not boot current users off the system.

You can also refresh caches in Splunk Web:

1. In the __System__ menu, under __Users and authentication__ select __Access controls__.
2. Click __Authentication method__.
3. Click __Reload authentication configuration__ to refresh the caches.

Each specified function, except `getUsers`, has a separate cache for each user. So, if you have 10 users logged on and you've specified the `getUserInfoTTL` attribute, the `getUserInfo` function will have 10 user-based caches. The `getUsers` function encompasses all users, so it has a single, global cache.

## Use PAM authentication

You can configure Splunk Enterprise to use PAM authentication by following the steps in the example directory's README, which is located at `$SPLUNK_HOME/share/splunk/authScriptSamples/`.

If you are still unable to authenticate, then edit `/etc/pam.d/pamauth` and add this line:

```bash
auth sufficient pam_unix.so
```

## Use the getSearchFilter function to filter at search time

This function is optional and can be used to implement a user-based filter at search time. When `getSearchFilter` is enabled, Splunk software calls it every time a search is run. A user-based search filter supplements any filters specified for that user's role(s). The returned filter(s) will be applied to each search, along with any configured at the role level. Caching of the filter does not occur with this function.

__Note__ : User-based search filters are optional and not recommended. A better approach is to assign search filters to roles and then assign users to the appropriate roles.

To enable `getSearchFilter` function, set the `scriptSearchFilters` parameter in `authentication.conf`:

```properties
[script]
scriptPath = $SPLUNK_HOME/bin/python $SPLUNK_HOME/bin/<scriptname.py>
scriptSearchFilters = 1
```

__Note__ : In previous releases, `getSearchFilter` could also be used to implement search filters for users who had been authenticated by Splunk software. Starting with 4.2, `getSearchFilter` is called only for users who have been authenticated by scripted authorization.

In addition, if a call to `getSearchFilter` fails, Splunk Enterprise will cancel the user's search and return an error message, to ensure that users cannot view results from unauthorized searches.