# Building customizations for the Splunk platform

Learn about APIs and other Splunk platform customization options.

## Developer resources

### APIs

Learn how to build custom solutions for data input, analysis, and alert actions.

<table>
<tr><td>API</td><td>Use case</td></tr>

<tr><td><a href="">Custom visualizations</a></td><td>Create custom visualizations for analyzing data patterns and trends.</a></td></tr>
<tr><td><a href="">Custom alert actions</a></td><td>Implement a custom response to alerts.</td></tr>
<tr><td><a href="">Modular inputs</a></td><td rowspan=2>Index data from unique sources or in non-standard formats.</td></tr>

<tr><td><a href="">Scripted inputs</a></td></tr>
</table>

### Splunk Web customization

Modify login page and other components.

### See also

See the following resources for additional information.

<table>
<tr><td>To learn about</td><td>See</td></td>
<tr><td><li>Building visualizations and dashboards</li>
<li>Using Simple XML</li></td><td><li>Dashboards and Visualizations</li></td></td>
<tr><td><li>Working with alerts</td><td><li>Alerting manual</li></td></td>
<tr><td><li>General app building guidance</li>
<li>Leveraging Splunk SDKs</li></td><td><li>Get started developing Splunk apps on the Splunk Developer Portal</li>
<li>Overview of Splunk SDKs on the Splunk Developer Portal</li></td></td>
<tr><td><li>Creating custom search commands</li>
<li>Managing access to custom search commands</li>
<li>Custom search command examples</li></td><td><li>How to create custom search commands on the Splunk Developer Portal</td></td>
<tr><td><li>Using the Splunk REST API</td><td><li>REST API Reference Manual
<li>REST API User Manual
<li>REST API Tutorials</td></td>
</table>

## Advanced XML Deprecation

As of Splunk Enterprise 6.3, the Advanced XML feature of the Splunk Web Framework is officially deprecated.

### What deprecation means

There will no longer be any feature enhancements to the Advanced XML framework.

### Support during deprecation

Any apps or dashboards using Advanced XML will continue to work.
Advanced XML will continue to be supported. Bugs will be fixed and support cases will be handled.

### New app development and app migration

Because there will be no further investment in the Advanced XML framework, any future development should be done using other features of the Splunk Web Framework (Simple XML, Simple XML jS/CSS extensions, HTML).
For existing apps or dashboards that use Advanced XML, while not necessary, we request that developers begin the migration process away from Advanced XML. We encourage developers to provide feedback at devinfo@splunk.com if there are any issues with migration.
For information about building dashboards and other visualizations using Simple XML, see Editing Simple XML in Dashboards and Visualizations.

### Notice of removal

Splunk provides notice of the planned removal of Advanced XML in the version 7.3.0 Deprecated features in the Release Notes.
