# Overview

The Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services allows a Splunk software administrator to collect:

- Configuration snapshots, configuration changes, and historical configuration data from the AWS Config service.
- Metadata for your AWS EC2 instances, reserved instances, and EBS snapshots.
- Compliance details, compliance summary, and evaluation status of your AWS Config Rules.
- Assessment Runs and Findings data from the Amazon Inspector service.
- Management and change events from the AWS CloudTrail service.
- VPC flow logs and other logs from the CloudWatch Logs service.
- Performance and billing metrics from the AWS CloudWatch service.
- Billing reports that you have configured in AWS.
- S3, CloudFront, and ELB access logs.
- Generic data from your S3 buckets.
- Generic data from your Kinesis streams.
- Generic data from SQS.

This add-on provides modular inputs and CIM-compatible knowledge to use with other apps, such as the Splunk App for AWS, Splunk Enterprise Security and Splunk IT Service Intelligence.

## About the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services

|Version|4.5.0|
|:--:|:--|
|Vendor Products|Amazon Web Services CloudTrail, CloudWatch, CloudWatch Logs, Config, Config Rules, Inspector, Kinesis, S3, VPC Flow Log, Billing services, SQS, and SNS|
|Visible in Splunk Web|Yes. This add-on contains views for configuration.|

The Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services allows a Splunk software administrator to collect:

- Configuration snapshots, configuration changes, and historical configuration data from the AWS Config service.
- Metadata for your AWS EC2 instances, reserved instances, and EBS snapshots
- Compliance details, compliance summary, and evaluation status of your AWS Config Rules.
- Assessment Runs and Findings data from the Amazon Inspector service.
- Management and change events from the AWS CloudTrail service.
- VPC flow logs and other logs from the CloudWatch Logs service.
- Performance and billing metrics from the AWS CloudWatch service.
- Billing reports that you have configured in AWS.
- S3, CloudFront, and ELB access logs.
- Generic data from your S3 buckets.
- Generic data from your Kinesis streams.
- Generic data from SQS.

This add-on provides modular inputs and [CIM](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/CIM/4.11.0/User/Overview)-compatible knowledge to use with other Splunk apps, such as the Splunk App for AWS, Splunk Enterprise Security, and Splunk IT Service Intelligence.

Only CloudTrail, CloudWatch, Config, Config Rules, Amazon Inspector, and VPC Flow Logs data is tagged for CIM compliance. Because data gathered from S3 buckets and Kinesis is not predictable, the add-on cannot normalize it to the CIM data models.

You can also collect data using the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Kinesis Firehose, which offers an alternate method for integrating with your Amazon account and pushing data from AWS to the Splunk platform. For more information, see [About the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Kinesis Firehose](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/AddOns/released/Firehose/About).

Download the [Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services](http://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/1876) from Splunkbase.

For a summary of new features, fixed issues, and known issues, see [Release Notes for the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/AddOns/released/AWS/Releasenotes).

For information about installing and configuring the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services, see [Installation and configuration overview for the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/AddOns/released/AWS/Installationsteps).

See [Questions related to Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services](http://answers.splunk.com/answers/app/1876) on Splunk Answers.

## Source types for the Splunk Add-on for AWS

Source types for the Splunk Add-on for AWS
The Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services provides the index-time and search-time knowledge for alerts, events, and performance metrics in the following formats.

<table>
<tr><td>Data source</td><td>Source type</td><td>Description</td><td>CIM compliance</td><td>ITSI compliance</td></tr>

<tr><td rowspan=2>Config</td><td>aws:config</td><td>Configuration snapshots and historical configuration data from the AWS Config service.</td><td>Change Analysis</td><td rowspan=2>None</td></tr>
<tr><td>aws:config:notification</td><td>Configuration change notifications from the AWS Config service.</td><td>Change Analysis</td></tr>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>aws:description</td><td>Descriptions of your AWS EC2 instances, reserved instances, and EBS snapshots, used to improve dashboard readability.</td><td>None</td><td>Virtualization</td></tr>
<tr><td>Config Rules</td><td>aws:config:rule</td><td>Compliance details, compliance summary, and evaluation status of your AWS Config Rules.</td><td>Inventory</td><td>None</td></tr>
<tr><td>Inspector</td><td>aws:inspector</td><td>Assessment Runs and Findings data from the Amazon Inspector service.</td><td>Inventory, Alerts</td><td>None</td></tr>
<tr><td>CloudTrail</td><td>aws:cloudtrail</td><td>AWS API call history from the AWS CloudTrail service.</td><td>Change Analysis</td><td>None</td></tr>
<tr><td rowspan=2>CloudWatch Logs</td><td>aws:cloudwatchlogs</td><td>Data from the CloudWatch Logs service.</td><td>None</td><td rowspan=2>None</td></tr>
<tr><td>aws:cloudwatchlogs:vpcflow</td><td>VPC flow logs from the CloudWatch Logs service.</td><td>Network Traffic</td></tr>
<tr><td>CloudWatch</td><td>aws:cloudwatch</td><td>Performance and billing metrics from the AWS CloudWatch service.</td><td>Performance, Databases</td><td>Virtualization</td></tr>
<tr><td rowspan=2>Billing</td><td>aws:billing</td><td>Billing reports that you have configured in AWS.</td><td rowspan=2>None</td><td rowspan=2>None</td></tr>
<tr><td>aws:billing:cur</td><td>Cost and Usage Reports that you have configured in AWS</td></tr>
<tr><td rowspan=5>S3</td><td>aws:s3</td><td>Generic log data from your S3 buckets.</td><td rowspan=5>None</td><td rowspan=5>None</td></tr>
<tr><td>aws:s3:accesslogs</td><td>S3 access logs.</td></tr>
<tr><td>aws:cloudfront:accesslogs</td><td>CloudFront access logs.</td></tr>
<tr><td>aws:elb:accesslogs</td><td>ELB access logs.</td></tr>
<tr><td>aws:cloudtrail</td><td>Cloudtrail data</td></tr>
<tr><td>Kinesis</td><td>aws:kinesis</td><td>Data from Kinesis streams.</td><td>None</td><td>None</td></tr>
<tr><td>SQS</td><td>aws:sqs</td><td>Generic data from SQS.</td><td>None</td><td>None</td></tr>
</table>

To decide which input type to use for a specific AWS source type, refer to the [source type-input type mapping matrix](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/AddOns/released/AWS/ConfigureInputs#Source_type-input_type_mapping).

For additional source types for internal logs to help with troubleshooting, see [Troubleshoot the Splunk Add-on for AWS](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/AddOns/released/AWS/Troubleshooting).

## Release notes for the Splunk Add-on for AWS

Version 4.5.0 of the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services was released on March 22, 2018.

### Compatibility

Version 4.5.0 of the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services is compatible with the following software, CIM versions, and platforms.

|Splunk platform versions|6.5 and later|
|:--:|:--:|
|CIM|4.3 and later|
|Supported OS for data collection|Platform independent|
|Vendor products|Amazon Web Services CloudTrail, CloudWatch, CloudWatch Logs, Config, Config Rules, Inspector, Kinesis, S3, VPC Flow Logs, Billing services, SQS, and SNS.|

### New features

Version 4.5.0 of the Splunk Add-on for AWS version contains the following new and changed features:

- Support for the configuration of billing inputs to collect Cost and Usage Report data (sourcetype: `aws:billing:cur`).

### Fixed issues

Version 4.5.0 of the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services fixes the following issues.

|Date resolved|Issue number|Description|
|:--|:--|:--|
|2018-01-22|ADDON-15918|AWS TA is unable to validate role ARNs with "/" in path|
|2018-01-22|ADDON-16435|AWS - Getting error trying to connect to CloudTrail using SQS Based S3 - EU-WEST-1|

### Known issues

Version 4.5.0 of the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services has the following known issues.

|Date resolved|Issue number|Description|
|:--|:--|:--|
|2018-02-27|ADDON-17277|Line/event breaking enforcement for ELB/S3 Access Logs|
|2018-02-19|ADDON-17158|The style of multi-input text box is not correct|
|2018-02-19|ADDON-17157|The header view of customized page is inconsistent with the default NightLight style|
|2018-02-13|ADDON-17132|Create/edit input page layout is broken|
|2018-02-13|ADDON-17135|Placeholder tooltip is missing for dropdown|

### Third-party software attributions

Version 4.5.0 of the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services incorporates the following third-party libraries.

Bootstrap
boto - AWS for Python
boto3
botocore
dateutils
docutils
jmespath
jqBootstrapValidation
jquery-cookie
Httplib2
remote-pdb
SortedContainers
select2
urllib3

## Release history for the Splunk Add-on for AWS

### Latest release

The latest version of the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services is version 4.5.0. See Release notes for the Splunk Add-on for AWS for the release notes of this latest version.

### Version 4.4.0

Version 4.4.0 of the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services is compatible with the following software, CIM versions, and platforms.

|Splunk platform versions|6.5 and later|
|:--|:--|
|CIM|4.3 and later|
|Platforms|Platform independent|
|Vendor Products|Amazon Web Services CloudTrail, CloudWatch, CloudWatch Logs, Config, Config Rules, Inspector, Kinesis, S3, VPC Flow Logs, Billing services, SQS, and SNS.|

### New features(4.4.0)

Version 4.4.0 of the Splunk Add-on for AWS version contains the following new and changed features:

- Splunk Add-on for AWS 4.4.0 is only compatible with Splunk App for AWS 5.1.0. Previous versions of Splunk App for AWS are not supported.
- Optimized Web UI for better usability and more streamlined configuration workflow
  - The Create New Input menu has been redesigned with all the menu options organized by the type of data to collect.
  - Two separate configuration pages are now available for Generic S3 and Incremental S3 input types respectively. Previously, the two different input types were configured in one configuration page.
  - Input configuration fields are now grouped into AWS Input Configuration, Splunk-related Configuration, and Advanced Settings sections on the Web UI.
  - Redesigned input configuration UIs for CloudWatch and Config input types let you create multiple inputs all at once.
- Added a new Temp Folder setting to the Billing input type configuration, which lets you specify a non-default folder for temporarily storing downloaded detailed billing report .zip files when the system default temp folder does not provide sufficient space.
- You can now configure SQS-based S3 inputs to index non-AWS custom logs in plain text in addition to its supported AWS log types.
- SQS-based S3 input type now supports CloudTrail and Config SQS notifications.
- Assume Role is now supported in SQS, Config Rule, and Inspector input types.
- The Description input type now supports the iam_users service.

### Upgrade

To upgrade from versions 4.3 and below, AWS users must be given permission to use the `ec2:RunInstances` API action, and depending on deployment, the following API actions:

|API Action|Description|
|:--:|:--:|
ec2:DescribeImages	Allows users to view and select an AMI.
ec2:DescribeVpcs	Allows users to view the available EC2-Classic and virtual private clouds (VPCs) network options. This API action is required even if you are not launching into a VPC.
ec2:DescribeSubnets	Allows users to view all available subnets for the chosen VPC, when launching into a VPC.
ec2:DescribeSecurityGroups	Allows users to view the security groups page in the wizard. Users can select an existing security group.
ec2:DescribeKeyPairs or ec2:CreateKeyPair	Allows users to select an existing key pair, or create a new key pair.
See Configure Description permissions for more information on how to configure AWS permissions.

See the AWS documentation for more information on the DescribeImages function. https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_DescribeImages.html.

### Fixed issues(4.4.0)

Version 4.4.0 of the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services fixes the following issues.

Date resolved	Issue number	Description
2017-08-03	ADDON-14890	Add-on truncates Kinesis stream dropdown to 20 items.
2017-07-27	ADDON-12700	Pagination issue in Account page.
2017-07-11	ADDON-11974	Cannot get CloudWatch data using some default configuration in Add-on
2017-05-25	ADDON-13282	Cannot change Description interval in UI more than once

### Known issues(4.4.0)

Version 4.4.0 of the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services has the following known issues.

Date filed	Issue number	Description
2018-03-28	ADDON-17571	AWS TA and *nix TA lack spec files for eventgen.conf, which causes cluster bundle validation errors, and breaks Manage Indexes page in clustered Splunk Cloud

Workaround:
Splunk Cloud customers who cannot create indexes on their own due to this bug should file a support case when they need new indexes created.
2018-02-27	ADDON-17277	Line/event breaking enforcement for ELB/S3 Access Logs
2018-01-09	ADDON-16538	Cannot create AWS TA kinesis input for govcloud in the UI

Workaround:
After the release of version 4.4.0, AWS added govcloud support for kinesis streams. However, the AWS TA will not allow you to create a govcloud kinesis input via the UI. You can manually configure the kinesis input in aws_kinesis_tasks.conf instead.
2018-01-05	ADDON-16518	When kinesis and cloudwatch inputs send large volumes of data over HEC, HEC can block the ingest pipeline, which breaks non-HEC inputs.

Workaround:
Set use_hec=false in [global_settings] stanza of aws_kinesis.conf and/or aws_cloudwatch.conf
2017-12-20	ADDON-16435	AWS - Getting error trying to connect to CloudTrail using SQS Based S3 - EU-WEST-1
2017-09-21	ADDON-15918	AWS TA is unable to validate role ARNs with "/" in path
2017-09-03	ADDON-15718	Duplicate cloudfront data in description when there are more than 1 regions
2017-09-01	ADDON-15712	It stops pulling Kinesis stream data when the Kinesis stream is resharded
2017-08-22	ADDON-15603	Users can delete an account in use.
2017-08-19	ADDON-15578	On Windows, fails to rotate CloudWatch and Incremental S3 logs when indexing speed cannot catch up with data collection
2017-07-25	ADDON-15371	Add-on should support non-UTF fields in access logs.
2017-03-29	ADDON-14287	After you replace an IAM role attached to an EC2 instance, the inputs that use the old IAM role stop collecting data.

### Third-party software attributions(4.4.0)

Version 4.4.0 of the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services incorporates the following third-party libraries.

Bootstrap
boto - AWS for Python
boto3
botocore
dateutils
docutils
jmespath
jqBootstrapValidation
jquery-cookie
Httplib2
remote-pdb
SortedContainers
select2
urllib3

## Installation and configuration overview for the Splunk Add-on for AWS

Installation and configuration overview for the Splunk Add-on for AWS
To install and configure this add-on on your supported platform, follow these steps.

1. Configure your AWS accounts and services, or confirm your existing configurations.
2. Configure accounts or EC2 roles with IAM permissions to match those required by the add-on.
3. Install the add-on.
4. On your data collection node, configure the AWS accounts you want to use to collect data with the add-on.
5. Configure your inputs to get your AWS data into Splunk platform.