# Pre-installation

## Hardware and software requirements for the Splunk Add-on for AWS

### AWS account prerequisites

To use this add-on, you must have a valid AWS account with sufficient permissions to configure the AWS services from which you want to collect data. You must also have permission to create IAM roles and users so that you can set up accounts or EC2 IAM roles with the appropriate permissions that the add-on can use to collect data from your AWS services.

Refer to [Configure AWS permissions](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/AddOns/released/AWS/ConfigureAWSpermissions) for detailed permission requirements for the accounts used to collect data.

### AWS region limitations

The Splunk Add-on for AWS supports all regions offered by AWS.

If you are in the AWS China region, the add-on only supports the services that AWS supports in that region. The China region does not support Config Rules, Inspector, CloudWatch Logs, or CloudFront services, nor does it offer CloudWatch metrics for ELB logs. For an up-to-date list of what products and services are supported in this region, see <http://www.amazonaws.cn/en/products/>.

If you are in the AWS GovCloud region, the add-on only supports the services that AWS supports in that region. The GovCloud region does not support Config Rules, Inspector, or Kinesis at this time. For an up-to-date list of what services and endpoints are supported in this region, see the AWS documentation: <http://docs.aws.amazon.com/govcloud-us/latest/UserGuide/using-services.html>.

### Splunk platform requirements

Because this add-on runs on the Splunk platform, all of the system requirements apply for the Splunk software that you use to run this add-on.

If you plan to run this add-on entirely in Splunk Cloud, there are no additional Splunk platform requirements.
If you manage on-premises heavy forwarders to get data in to Splunk Cloud, see [System Requirements](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.1.1/Installation/Systemrequirements) in the Installation Manual in the Splunk Enterprise documentation, which includes information about forwarders.
If you plan to run this add-on in an on-premises deployment of the Splunk platform, see [System Requirements](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.1.1/Installation/Systemrequirements) in the Installation Manual in the Splunk Enterprise documentation.
If you plan to run this add-on in a self-managed AWS instance, there are no additional requirements. Refer to the [Virtual hardware](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.1.1/Capacity/Referencehardware#Splunk_Enterprise.2C_self-managed_in_the_cloud) information for sizing considerations specific to AWS.
For information about installation locations and environments, see [Install the Splunk Add-on for AWS](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/AddOns/released/AWS/Distributeddeployment).

## Sizing, performance, and cost considerations for the Splunk Add-on for AWS

Before you configure this add-on, review these sizing, performance, and cost considerations.

### General

The following table provides a general guidance on the recommended maximum daily indexing volume for each typical AWS source type on a clustered indexer to achieve acceptable dashboard reporting performance. Use this as a rough guideline to plan for the number of indexers to deploy in your clustered enviornment. Adding more indexers to a cluster improves indexing and search retrival performance, but since this also incurs some additional within-cluster data replication traffic, adjust the number of indexers in your cluster based on your actual system performance.

|Source Type|Daily Indexing Volume per Indexer (GB)|
|:--:|:--:|
|aws:cloudwatchlogs:vpcflow|25 - 30|
|aws:s3:accesslogs|80 - 120|
|aws:cloudtrail|150 - 200|
|aws:billing|50 - 100|

The sizing recommendations assume the following hardware configurations for the Splunk platform. You can also use the [system requirements for use of Splunk Enterprise on-premises](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.1.1/Installation/Systemrequirements) in the Splunk Enterprise Installation Manual as a reference.

|Splunk Platform Type|CPU Cores|RAM|EC2 Instance Type|
|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|
|Search Head|8|16 GB|c4.xlarge|
|Indexer|16|64 GB|m4.4xlarge|

Input configuration screens require data transfer from AWS to populate the services, queues, and buckets available to your accounts. If your network to AWS is slow, these may take some time to load. If you encounter timeout issues, you can manually type in resource names.

For more information, see [Performance Reference for the Splunk Add-on for AWS data inputs](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/AddOns/released/AWS/S3PerformanceReference).

### CloudTrail

|Consideration|Special notes|
|:--:|:--|
|Sizing and Performance|None
|AWS Cost|Using CloudTrail itself does not incur charges, but standard S3, SNS, and SQS charges apply. See <http://aws.amazon.com/pricing/services/>.

### Config

<table>
<tr><td>Consideration</td><td>Special notes</td></tr>
<tr><td>Sizing and Performance</td><td>None</td></tr>
<tr><td>AWS Cost</td><td>Using Config incurs charges from AWS. See http://aws.amazon.com/config/pricing/.
In addition, standard S3, SNS, and SQS charges apply. See http://aws.amazon.com/pricing/services/.</td></tr>
</table>

### Config Rules

|Consideration|Special notes|
|:--:|:--|
|Sizing and Performance|None|
|AWS Cost|None|

### CloudWatch

<table>
<tr><td>Consideration</td><td>Special notes</td></tr>
<tr><td>Sizing and Performance</td><td>The smaller the granularity you configure, the more events you collect.

Best practice: Create separate inputs that match your needs for different regions, services, and metrics. For each input, configure a granularity that matches the precision that you require, setting a larger granularity value in cases where indexing fewer, less-granular events is acceptable. You can increase granularity temporarily when a problem is detected.

AWS rate-limits the number of free API calls against the CloudWatch API. In testing with a period of 300 and a polling interval or 1800, Splunk determined that collecting data for 2 million metrics does not, by itself, exceed the current default rate limit, but that collecting 4 million metrics does exceed it. If you have millions of metrics to collect in your environment, consider paying to have your API limit raised, or remove less-essential metrics from your input and configure larger granularities in order to make fewer API calls.
</td></tr>
<tr><td>AWS Cost</td><td>Using CloudWatch and making requests against the CloudWatch API incurs charges from AWS.
See http://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/</td></tr>
</table>

### CloudWatch Logs (VPC Flow Logs)

<table>

<tr><td>Consideration</td><td>Special notes</td></tr>
<tr><td>Sizing and Performance</td><td>AWS limits each account to 10 requests per second, each of which will return no more than 1 MB of data. This means the data ingestion and indexing rate will be no more than 10MB/s. The add-on modular input can process up to 4K events per second in a single log stream.
Best practices:

- If volume is a concern, configure the only_after parameter to limit the amount of historical data you collect.
- If you have high volume VPC Flow Logs, configure one or more Kinesis inputs to collect them instead of using the CloudWatch Logs input.</td></tr>

<tr><td>AWS Cost</td><td>Using CloudWatch Logs incurs charges from AWS. See http://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/
Transferring data out of CloudWatch Logs incurs charges from AWS. See http://aws.amazon.com/ec2/pricing/</td></tr>
</table>

### Inspector

<table>
<tr><td>Consideration</td><td>Special notes</td></tr>
<tr><td>Sizing and Performance</td><td>None</td></tr>
<tr><td>AWS Cost</td><td>Using Amazon Inspector incurs charges from AWS. See http://aws.amazon.com/inspector/pricing/.</td></tr>
</table>

### Kinesis

<table>
<tr><td>Consideration</td><td>Special notes</td></tr>
<tr><td>Sizing and Performance</td><td>See Performance reference for the Kinesis input in the Splunk Add-on for AWS</td></tr>
<tr><td>AWS Cost</td><td>Using Amazon Kinesis incurs charges from AWS. See https://aws.amazon.com/kinesis/streams/pricing/.</td></tr>
</table>

### S3

<table>
<tr><td>Consideration</td><td>Special notes</td></tr>
<tr><td>Sizing and Performance</td><td>AWS throttles S3 data collection at the bucket level, so expect some delay before all data arrives in your Splunk platform.
You can configure multiple S3 inputs for a single S3 bucket to improve performance. The Splunk platform dedicates one process for each data input, so provided that your system has sufficient processing power, performance will improve with multiple inputs. See Performance reference for the S3 input in the Splunk Add-on for AWS.</td></tr>
<tr><td>AWS Cost</td><td>Using S3 incurs charges from AWS. See http://aws.amazon.com/s3/pricing/.</td></tr>
</table>

### Billing

<table>

<tr><td>Consideration</td><td>Special notes</td></tr>
<tr><td>Sizing and Performance</td><td>Detailed billing reports can be very large in size, depending on your environment. If you configure the add-on to collect detailed reports, it collects all historical reports available in the bucket by default. In addition, for each newly finalized monthly and detailed report, the add-on will collect new copies of the same report once per interval until the etag is unchanged.
Best practice: Configure separate inputs for each billing report type that you want to collect. Use the regex and interval parameters in the add-on's input configuration to limit the number of reports that you collect with each input.</td></tr>
<tr><td>AWS Cost</td><td>Billing reports themselves do not incur charges, but standard S3 charges apply.
See http://aws.amazon.com/s3/pricing/.</td></tr>
</table>

### SQS

<table>
<tr><td>Consideration</td><td>Special notes</td></tr>
<tr><td>Sizing and Performance</td><td>None</td></tr>
<tr><td>AWS Cost</td><td>Using SQS incurs charges from AWS. https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/pricing/</td></tr>
</table>

### SNS

<table>
<tr><td></td><td></td></tr>
</table>

Consideration	Special notes
Sizing and Performance	None
AWS Cost	Using SNS incurs charges from AWS. https://aws.amazon.com/sns/pricing/

## Configure AWS services for the Splunk Add-on for AWS

Configure AWS services for the Splunk Add-on for AWS
To collect data from Amazon Web Services, you must first enable or configure the AWS services that produce the data.

As a last step for each service, you need to configure the appropriate permissions for accounts or EC2 IAM roles that the Splunk Add-on for AWS uses to connect to your AWS environment, so that the add-on can access the data from the services you have configured. See Configure AWS permissions for details.

If your account is in the AWS China region or the AWS GovCloud region, not all AWS services are available to you.

If you are in the AWS China region, the add-on only supports the services that AWS supports in that region. For an up-to-date list of what products and services are supported in this region, see http://www.amazonaws.cn/en/products/ or https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/regional-product-services/.
If you are in the AWS GovCloud region, the add-on only supports the services that AWS supports in that region. The GovCloud region does not support AWS Config, Config Rules, Inspector, or Kinesis at this time. For an up-to-date list of what services and endpoints are supported in this region, see the AWS documentation: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/govcloud-us/latest/UserGuide/using-services.html.
Prerequisite: Performing all the steps below requires administrator access to your AWS account. If you do not have the required permissions to perform all the actions yourself, work with an AWS admin to complete all steps, including creating the accounts or EC2 IAM roles with the permissions that the Splunk Add-on for AWS uses to connect.

Configure AWS Config
The Splunk Add-on for AWS collects events from a Simple Queue Service (SQS) that subscribes to the Simple Notification Service (SNS) notification events from AWS Config. Configure AWS Config to produce these notifications, then create the SQS for the add-on to access them.

Enable Config by following the AWS Config setup guide: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/setting-up.html.
Follow the AWS Config Getting Started guide (http://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/getting-started.html) to specify an S3 bucket to save the data and an SNS topic to stream Config notifications to. Do not use an existing bucket or SNS. Following the AWS Config setup allows AWS to automatically create the IAM role for AWS config so that it has the necessary permissions for the bucket and SNS.
Finish the setup steps in the AWS Config Getting Started guide and verify that you have successfully completed the setup process. If you used the AWS console, you should see the Resource Lookup page. If you use the CLI, you can follow this verification guide: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/gs-cli-verify-subscribe.html.
Create a new SQS.
Subscribe the SQS exclusively to the the SNS Topic that you created in Step 2.
Grant IAM permissions to access the S3 bucket and SQS to the AWS account that the add-on uses to connect to your AWS environment. See Configure AWS permissions for details.
Configure AWS Config Rules
AWS Config Rules requires no additional configuration beyond that described in the AWS documentation.

Enable AWS Config for all regions for which you want to collect data in the add-on. Follow the AWS Config setup guide: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/setting-up.html.
Set up AWS Config Rules by following the instructions in the AWS Config documentation: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/evaluate-config_set-up.html
Grant the necessary permissions to the AWS account used for this input. See Configure AWS permissions for details.
Configure CloudTrail
The Splunk Add-on for AWS collects events from a Simple Queue Service (SQS) that subscribes to the Simple Notification Service (SNS) notification events from CloudTrail. Configure CloudTrail to produce these notifications, then create an SQS in each region for the add-on to access them.

Although AWS offers global trails, or one CloudTrail configuration in one region to collect trail data from all regions, SQS messages do not arrive as expected in this case. Either configure separate CloudTrail S3 > SNS > SQS paths for each region to ensure that you capture all your data or, if you want to configure a global CloudTrail, skip steps 3 through 6 below and instead configure the add-on to collect data from that S3 bucket directly.

Enable CloudTrail. Follow the instructions in the AWS documentation: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/cloudtrail-create-and-update-a-trail.html.
Create an S3 Bucket in which to store the CloudTrail events. Follow the AWS documentation to ensure the permissions for this bucket are correct: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/create-s3-bucket-policy-for-cloudtrail.html
Enable SNS Notifications. See the AWS documentation for instructions: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/getting_notifications_top_level.html
Create a new SQS.
If you are in the China region, explicitly grant DeleteMessage and SendMessage permissions to the SQS that you just created. This step is not necessary in commercial regions.
Subscribe the SQS to the SNS Notifications that you enabled in step 3.
Grant IAM permissions to access the S3 bucket and SQS to the AWS account that the add-on uses to connect to your AWS environment. See Configure AWS permissions for details.
Configure CloudWatch
To enable AWS to produce billing metrics in CloudWatch, turn on Receive Billing Alerts in the Preferences section of the Billing and Cost Management console.

The CloudWatch service is automatically enabled to collect free metrics for your AWS services and requires no additional configuration for the Splunk Add-on for AWS. However, you do need to grant permissions to the AWS account(s) that the add-on uses to connect to the CloudWatch API. See Configure AWS permissions for details.

Configure CloudWatch Logs, including VPC Flow Logs
Ingesting data from CloudWatch Logs requires no additional configuration beyond that described in the AWS documentation. Similarly, VPC Flow Logs require no additional configuration for the Splunk Add-on for AWS, other than enabling them for your VPCs. However, you do need to grant permissions to the AWS account(s) that the add-on uses to connect to the VPC Flow Log groups and streams. See Configure AWS permissions for details.

See the AWS documentation for how to enable Flow Logs for your VPCs and configure an IAM role for them: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonVPC/latest/UserGuide/flow-logs.html.

Configure Inspector
Inspector requires no additional configuration for the Splunk Add-on for AWS. However, you do need to grant permissions to the AWS accounts or EC2 IAM roles that the add-on uses to connect to the Amazon Inspector API. See Configure AWS permissions for details.

Configure Kinesis
Kinesis requires no additional configuration for the Splunk Add-on for AWS. However, you do need to grant permissions to the AWS accounts or EC2 IAM roles that the add-on uses to connect to the Kinesis API. See Configure AWS permissions for details.

Configure S3
If you are collecting generic log files, S3 requires no additional configuration for the Splunk Add-on for AWS. However, you do need to grant permissions to the AWS account that the add-on uses to connect to your S3 buckets. See Configure AWS permissions for details.

If you are collecting access logs, you must configure logging in the AWS console to collect the logs in a dedicated S3 bucket. See the AWS documentation for more information on how to configure access logs:

Enable S3 access logs: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/ServerLogs.html
Enable ELB access logs: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/ElasticLoadBalancing/latest/DeveloperGuide/enable-access-logs.html
Enable CloudFront access logs: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/AccessLogs.html
Refer to the AWS S3 documentation for more information about how to configure S3 buckets and objects. http://docs.aws.amazon.com/gettingstarted/latest/swh/getting-started-create-bucket.html

Configure billing
The Splunk App for AWS collects billing metrics through CloudWatch and billing reports by collecting them from an S3 bucket.

To enable AWS to produce billing metrics in CloudWatch, turn on Receive Billing Alerts in the Preferences section of the Billing and Cost Management console.

To enable billing reports, turn on Receive Billing Reports in the Preferences section of the Billing and Cost Management console. Be sure to verify your S3 bucket in the billing and cost management console and select the report types that you want to collect.

There is no additional configuration required for the Splunk Add-on for AWS other than enabling the billing reports that you want to collect and setting up an S3 bucket to collect them. However, you do need to grant permissions to access the S3 bucket to the AWS account that the add-on uses to connect to your AWS environment. See Configure AWS permissions for details.

For more details on managing your AWS billing reports, see the AWS documentation: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/awsaccountbilling/latest/aboutv2/detailed-billing-reports.html

For more information about accessing the billing report data in your searches, see Access Billing Report data.

Configure SNS
You need to grant permissions to the AWS accounts or EC2 IAM roles that the add-on uses to connect to the Amazon SNS API. See Configure AWS permissions for details.

If you plan to use the SQS-based S3 input, you must enable Amazon S3 bucket events to send notification messages to an SQS queue whenever the events occur. For instructions on setting up S3 bucket event notifications, see the AWS documentation:
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/UG/SettingBucketNotifications.html
http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/NotificationHowTo.html

Configure SQS
You need to grant permissions to the AWS accounts or EC2 IAM roles that the add-on uses to connect to the Amazon SQS API. See Configure AWS permissions for details.

If you plan to use the SQS-based S3 input, you must perform the following:

Set up a dead-letter queue for the SQS queue to be used for the input for storing invalid messages. For information about SQS dead-letter queues and how to configure it, see AWS documentation: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/sqs-dead-letter-queues.html.
Configure the SQS visibility timeout to prevent multiple inputs from receiving and processing messages in a queue more than once. We recommend that you set your SQS visibility timeout to 5 minutes or longer. If the visibility timeout for a message is reached before the message has been fully processed by the SQS-based S3 input, the message will reappear in the queue and will be retrieved and processed again, resulting in duplicate data.
For information about SQS visibility timeout and how to configure it, see AWS documentation: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/sqs-visibility-timeout.html.

## Configure AWS permissions for the Splunk Add-on for AWS

Configure AWS permissions for the Splunk Add-on for AWS
In order for the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services to access the data in your Amazon Web Services account, you must assign one or more AWS accounts to an IAM role with the permissions required by those services. Or, if you are running this add-on on a Splunk platform instance running in your own managed Amazon EC2, you can assign that EC2 to a role and give that role the IAM permissions listed here. Either way, this step requires administrator rights in the AWS Management Console. If you do not have administrator access, work with your AWS admin to set up the account(s) with the permissions required.

There are many ways to manage IAM policies.

You can use the AWS Policy Generator tool to collect all permissions into one centrally managed policy that you can apply to the IAM group used by the account(s) or EC2s that the Splunk App for AWS uses to connect to your AWS environment.
You can create multiple different users, groups, and roles with the specific permissions required just for the services from which you plan to collect data.
You can copy and paste the sample policies provided on this page and apply them to an IAM Group as custom inline policies. To further specify the resources to which the policy should grant access, replace the wildcards with the exact ARNs of the resources in your environment.
For more information about working with inline policies, access the AWS documentation: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_inline-using.html

Note: The add-on's configuration interface in Splunk Web will attempt to obtain your SQS queue names and S3 buckets so that you can select the ones you want to use for the input. This requires GetList permissions that your admin might not grant to your service account. If these browse events fail due to permissions or timeouts, you can still manually enter queue and bucket names through the Splunk Web interface or in the configuration files.

Create and configure roles to delegate permissions to IAM users
The Splunk Add-on for AWS supports the AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) AssumeRole API action that lets you use IAM roles to delegate permissions to IAM users to access AWS resources.

AssumeRole returns a set of temporary security credentials (consisting of an access key ID, a secret access key, and a security token) that an AWS account can use to access AWS resources that it might not normally have access to.

To assume a role, your AWS account must be trusted by the role. The trust relationship is defined in the role's trust policy when the role is created. That trust policy states which accounts are allowed to delegate access to this account's role.

The user who wants to access the role must also have permissions delegated from the role's administrator. If the user is in a different account than the role, then the user's administrator must attach a policy that allows the user to call AssumeRole on the ARN of the role in the other account. If the user is in the same account as the role, then you can either attach a policy to the user (identical to the previous different account user), or you can add the user as a principal directly in the role's trust policy.

To create an IAM role, follow the instructions in the AWS documentation: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_create_for-user.html

After creating the role, modify the trust relationship to allow the IAM user to assume it. The following example shows a trust relationship that allows a role to be assumed by an IAM user named johndoe:

{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:user/johndoe"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
    }
  ]
}
Next, grant your IAM user permission to assume the role. The following example shows an AWS Identity and Access Management policy that allows an IAM user to assume the s3admin role:

{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
      "Resource": "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/s3admin"
    }
  ]
}
Configure one policy containing permissions for all inputs
The following sample policy provides the necessary permissions for all ten inputs included in the Splunk Add-on for AWS. See the remaining sections for separate policies that break out the permissions for each service.

Sample inline policy:

{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "sqs:GetQueueAttributes",
        "sqs:ListQueues",
        "sqs:ReceiveMessage",
        "sqs:GetQueueUrl",
        "sqs:SendMessage",
        "sqs:DeleteMessage",
        "s3:ListBucket",
        "s3:GetObject",
        "s3:GetBucketLocation",
        "s3:ListAllMyBuckets",
        "s3:GetBucketTagging",
        "s3:GetAccelerateConfiguration",
        "s3:GetBucketLogging",
        "s3:GetLifecycleConfiguration",
        "s3:GetBucketCORS",
        "config:DeliverConfigSnapshot",
        "config:DescribeConfigRules",
        "config:DescribeConfigRuleEvaluationStatus",
        "config:GetComplianceDetailsByConfigRule",
        "config:GetComplianceSummaryByConfigRule",
        "iam:GetUser",
        "iam:ListUsers",
        "iam:GetAccountPasswordPolicy",
        "iam:ListAccessKeys",
        "iam:GetAccessKeyLastUsed",
        "autoscaling:Describe*",
        "cloudwatch:Describe*",
        "cloudwatch:Get*",
        "cloudwatch:List*",
        "sns:Get*",
        "sns:List*",
        "sns:Publish",
        "logs:DescribeLogGroups",
        "logs:DescribeLogStreams",
        "logs:GetLogEvents",
        "ec2:DescribeInstances",
        "ec2:DescribeReservedInstances",
        "ec2:DescribeSnapshots",
        "ec2:DescribeRegions",
        "ec2:DescribeKeyPairs",
        "ec2:DescribeNetworkAcls",
        "ec2:DescribeSecurityGroups",
        "ec2:DescribeSubnets",
        "ec2:DescribeVolumes",
        "ec2:DescribeVpcs",
        "ec2:DescribeImages",
        "ec2:DescribeAddresses",
        "lambda:ListFunctions",
        "rds:DescribeDBInstances",
        "cloudfront:ListDistributions",
        "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeLoadBalancers",
        "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeInstanceHealth",
        "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeTags",
        "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeTargetGroups",
        "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeTargetHealth",
        "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeListeners",
        "inspector:Describe*",
        "inspector:List*",
        "kinesis:Get*",
        "kinesis:DescribeStream",
        "kinesis:ListStreams",
        "kms:Decrypt",
        "sts:AssumeRole"
      ],
      "Resource": [
        "*"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
Configure AWS Config permissions
Required permission for the S3 bucket that collects your Config logs: GetObject, GetBucketLocation, ListBucket, ListAllMyBuckets

Required permission for the SQS subscribed to the SNS Topic that collects Config notifications: GetQueueAttributes, ListQueues, ReceiveMessage, GetQueueUrl, SendMessage, DeleteMessage

Required permission for the Config snapshots: DeliverConfigSnapshot

Required permission for the IAM user to get the Config snapshots: GetUser

Sample inline policy:

{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "s3:ListBucket",
                "s3:GetObject",
                "s3:GetBucketLocation",
                "s3:ListAllMyBuckets"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "*"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "sqs:ListQueues",
                "sqs:ReceiveMessage",
                "sqs:GetQueueAttributes",
                "sqs:SendMessage",
                "sqs:GetQueueUrl",
                "sqs:DeleteMessage"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "*"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "config:DeliverConfigSnapshot"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "*"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "iam:GetUser"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "*"
            ]
        }
    ]
}
For more information and sample policies, see:

for SQS: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/UsingIAM.html
for S3: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/s3-access-control.html

Configure CloudTrail permissions
Required permission for the S3 bucket that collects your CloudTrail logs: Get*, List*, Delete*

Note: Granting the delete permission is required to support the option to remove log files when done collecting them with the add-on. If you set this parameter to false, you do not need to grant delete permissions.

Required permission for the SQS subscribed to the S3 bucket that collects CloudTrail logs: GetQueueAttributes, ListQueues, ReceiveMessage, GetQueueUrl, DeleteMessage

In the Resource section of the policy, specify the ARNs of the S3 buckets and SQS queues from which you want to collect data.

Sample inline policy:

{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "sqs:GetQueueAttributes",
                "sqs:ListQueues",
                "sqs:ReceiveMessage",
                "sqs:GetQueueUrl",
                "sqs:DeleteMessage",
                "s3:Get*",
                "s3:List*",
                "s3:Delete*"
            ],
            "Resource": [
               "*"
            ]
        }
    ]
}
For more information and sample policies, see:

for SQS: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/UsingIAM.html
for S3: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/s3-access-control.html
Configure CloudWatch permissions
Required permissions for CloudWatch: Describe*, Get*, List*

Required permissions for autoscaling: Describe*

Required permissions for SNS queue: Get*, List*

Sample inline policy:

{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Action": [
        "autoscaling:Describe*",
        "cloudwatch:Describe*",
        "cloudwatch:Get*",
        "cloudwatch:List*",
        "sns:Get*",
        "sns:List*"
      ],
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
For more information and sample policies, see: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/DeveloperGuide/UsingIAM.html

Configure CloudWatch Logs (VPC Flow Logs) permissions
Required permissions for logs: DescribeLogGroups, DescribeLogStreams, GetLogEvents

Sample inline policy:

{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Action": [
        "logs:DescribeLogGroups",
        "logs:DescribeLogStreams",
        "logs:GetLogEvents"
      ],
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
You must also ensure that your role has a trust relationship that allows the flow logs service to assume the role. While viewing the IAM role, choose Edit Trust Relationship and replace the policy with this one:

Sample inline policy:

{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Service": "vpc-flow-logs.amazonaws.com"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
    }
  ]
}
Configure Description permissions
Required permissions for EC2 resources: DescribeInstances, DescribeReservedInstances, DescribeSnapshots, DescribeRegions, DescribeKeyPairs, DescribeNetworkAcls, DescribeSecurityGroups, DescribeSubnets, DescribeVolumes, DescribeVpcs, DescribeImages, DescribeAddresses

Required permissions for Lambda: ListFunctions

Required permissions for RDS: DescribeDBInstances

Required permissions for CloudFront, if you are in a region that supports CloudFront: ListDistributions

Required permissions for ELB: DescribeLoadBalancers, DescribeInstanceHealth, DescribeTags, DescribeTargetGroups, DescribeTargetHealth

Required permissions for S3: ListAllMyBuckets, GetAccelerateConfiguration, GetBucketCORS, GetLifecycleConfiguration, GetBucketLocation, GetBucketLogging, GetBucketTagging

Sample inline policy:

{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:DescribeInstances",
        "ec2:DescribeReservedInstances",
        "ec2:DescribeSnapshots",
        "ec2:DescribeRegions",
        "ec2:DescribeKeyPairs",
        "ec2:DescribeNetworkAcls",
        "ec2:DescribeSecurityGroups",
        "ec2:DescribeSubnets",
        "ec2:DescribeVolumes",
        "ec2:DescribeVpcs",
        "ec2:DescribeImages",
        "ec2:DescribeAddresses",
        "lambda:ListFunctions",
        "rds:DescribeDBInstances",
        "cloudfront:ListDistributions",
        "iam:GetUser",
        "iam:ListUsers",
        "iam:GetAccountPasswordPolicy",
        "iam:ListAccessKeys",
        "iam:GetAccessKeyLastUsed",
        "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeLoadBalancers",
        "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeInstanceHealth",
        "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeTags",
        "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeTargetGroups",
        "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeTargetHealth",
        "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeListeners",
        "s3:ListAllMyBuckets",
        "s3:GetAccelerateConfiguration",
        "s3:GetBucketCORS",
        "s3:GetLifecycleConfiguration",
        "s3:GetBucketLocation",
        "s3:GetBucketLogging",
        "s3:GetBucketTagging"
      ],
      "Resource": [
        "*"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
Configure S3 permissions
Required permissions for S3 buckets and objects: ListBucket, GetObject, ListAllMyBuckets

Required permissions for KMS: Decrypt

In the Resource section of the policy, specify the ARNs of the S3 buckets from which you want to collect S3 access logs, CloudFront access logs, ELB access logs, or generic S3 log data.

Sample inline policy:

{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "s3:ListBucket",
        "s3:GetObject",
        "s3:ListAllMyBuckets",
        "kms:Decrypt"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
For more information and sample policies, see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/using-iam-policies.html.

Configure SQS-based S3 permissions
Required permissions for SQS: GetQueueUrl, ReceiveMessage, DeleteMessage, GetQueueAttributes, ListQueues

Required permissions for S3 buckets and objects: GetObject

Required permissions for KMS: Decrypt

Sample inline policy:

{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "sqs:GetQueueUrl",
        "sqs:ReceiveMessage",
        "sqs:DeleteMessage",
        "sqs:GetQueueAttributes",
        "sqs:ListQueues",
        "s3:GetObject",
        "kms:Decrypt"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
For more information and sample policies, see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/using-iam-policies.html.

Configure Billing permissions
Required permissions for for the S3 bucket that collects your billing reports: Get*, List*

In the Resource section of the policy, specify the ARNs of the S3 buckets that contain billing reports for your accounts.

Sample inline policy:

{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "s3:Get*",
        "s3:List*"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
For more information and sample policies, see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/awsaccountbilling/latest/aboutv2/billing-permissions-ref.html.

Configure Config Rule permissions
Required permission for Config: DescribeConfigRules, DescribeConfigRuleEvaluationStatus, GetComplianceDetailsByConfigRule, GetComplianceSummaryByConfigRule

{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "config:DescribeConfigRules",
                "config:DescribeConfigRuleEvaluationStatus",
                "config:GetComplianceDetailsByConfigRule",
                "config:GetComplianceSummaryByConfigRule"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
For more information and sample policies, see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/example-policies.html

Configure Amazon Inspector permissions
Required permission for Amazon Inspector: Describe*, List*

{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "inspector:Describe*",
                "inspector:List*"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
For more information, see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/list_inspector.html.

Configure Kinesis permissions
Required permission for Amazon Kinesis: Get*, DescribeStream, ListStreams

{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "kinesis:Get*",
                "kinesis:DescribeStream",
                "kinesis:ListStreams"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
Configure SQS permissions
Required permission for Amazon SQS: GetQueueAttributes, ListQueues, ReceiveMessage, GetQueueUrl, SendMessage and DeleteMessage.

{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "sqs:GetQueueAttributes",
        "sqs:ListQueues",
        "sqs:ReceiveMessage",
        "sqs:GetQueueUrl",
        "sqs:SendMessage",
        "sqs:DeleteMessage"
      ],
      "Resource": [
        "*"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
Configure SNS permissions
Required permission for Amazon SNS: Publish, Get* and List*.

{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "sns:Publish",
        "sns:Get*",
        "sns:List*"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}

For more information, see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/streams/latest/dev/controlling-access.html.