# Roll up your metrics data

## Roll up metrics data for faster search performance and increased storage capacity

If you have high-volume metrics that index large numbers of unique metric data points at a fast rate, you are probably concerned about issues like storage capacity for historical metrics data and the slow performance of searches across those large datasets.

A metric rollup policy can help you with these issues. You apply metric rollup policies to metric indexes with high-volume metrics. A metric rollup policy sets rules for the aggregation and summarization of the metrics on those indexes. The resulting metric rollup summaries are created in one or more target metric indexes. The rollup summaries contain metric data points that are aggregations of the raw metric data points in the source index. The summarized metrics take up less disk space and are faster to search than the orginal metrics.

You can create metric rollup policies through Splunk Web, by adding or updating configurations in metric_rollups.conf, and by using the catalog/metricstore/rollup REST API endpoint.

>> Certain metrics rollup feature extensions, such as the ability to define multiple default aggregation functions for a rollup policy, can only be managed through manual configuration file edits or REST API operations.

See the following topics:

- Create and edit metric rollup policies with Splunk Web
- Manage metric rollup policies with configuration files
- Metrics Catalog endpoint descriptions in the REST API Reference Manual.

### Index prerequisites for metric rollup policies

If you want to define a metric rollup policy, you must identify a source metrics index and one or more target metrics indexes. The source index holds the raw metrics that you want the metric rollup policy to summarize. The target index or indexes are where the rollup summaries are stored.

You can designate a source index as a target index if there is space on it for the summaries. However, colocating your source and target indexes on the same device might reduce your ability to get increased data storage benefits from the feature.

If target indexes for your metric rollup policy do not already exist, you must create them. See Create metrics indexes in Managing Indexers and Clusters of Indexers.

#### Using metric rollup summaries with distributed search

The background searches that populate the rollup summaries operate on the search head. This means that they require that the source index and the target indexes be discoverable on the search head. If you use distributed search, your indexes are all on the indexer tier and are not discoverable on the search head.

You can work around this by creating stand-in source and target indexes on the search head tier. As long as the stand-in indexes have the same names as the actual indexes on the indexer tier, the Splunk software applies any rollup policies you create for the stand-in indexes to the actual indexes.

If you use distributed search you also need to arrange to have the stand-in index on the search head forward its summary data to the actual index on the indexers. You can do this by setting up a universal forwarder configuration on the search head that uses a whitelist to filter out all other indexes. This enables it to forward the metric rollup summary data to the actual target metrics index on the indexer tier. See the following topics:

- Best practice: Forward search head data to the indexer layer in Distributed Search.
- Filter data by target index in Forwarding Data.

### Anatomy of a metric rollup policy

If you have a source metrics index that contains high-volume metrics, you can create a metric rollup policy for it. The source metrics index must be discoverable on a search head. See Index prerequisites for metric rollup policies.

#### Metric rollup policy requirements

At a minimum, a metric rollup policy determines:

- How many rollup summaries are created for the raw metrics in its source index.
- Which target indexes the summaries are stored in.
- The periods of the scheduled searches that generate the aggregated metric data points for the rollup summaries.
- The default aggregation function used for the summarization of the raw metrics.

The following table defines the required components of a metric rollup policy.

|Item|Description|
|:--:|:--:|
|One or more rollup summary definitions|Rollup summary definitions determine where and how the search heads create rollup summaries.|
|A default aggregation function|This is the default function the search head uses to aggregate metric data points from the source index when it generates rollup summaries. If you do not define an aggregation function, or if you create your metric rollup policy through Splunk Web, the search head uses the avg function. The other eligible functions are count, max, median, min, perc&lt;int&gt;, and sum.|

Each rollup summary definition breaks down further into two parts: a target metric index name and a timespan.

|Component|Description|
|:--:|:--:|
|Target metric index name|This is the index that the metric rollup summary will be created on. You must create the target metric index if it does not already exist. It must be discoverable on a search head. See Index prerequisites for metric rollup policies.|
|Timespan|This sets the period of the scheduled searches that generate the metric rollup summary. It must be indicated with relative time syntax, such as 1h for one hour or 20m for twenty minutes. You might run into search concurrency issues if you set the timespan below 60 seconds.|

#### Metric rollup policy options

A metric rollup policy can optionally include a dimension filter and one or more exception rules. The following table describes these optional components.

|Item|Description|
|:--:|:--|
|Dimension filter|You can indicate a set of dimensions that must be included or excluded from the rolled-up metrics in the summaries produced by the policy. Included dimensions are the only dimensions in the rolled-up metrics that come from the source metric data points. Excluded dimensions are the only dimensions from the source metric data points that do not appear in the rolled-up metrics.|
|Aggregation exception rules|Create exception rules for metrics that require different aggregation functions than the majority of the metrics in the rollup policy. For example, when your default aggregation is <avg>, you might have specific metrics that should instead be aggregated with functions like count or perc&lt;int&gt;. The other eligible functions are max, median, min, and sum.|

### How metric rollup summaries are generated

A metric rollup summary is built from the results of a single saved search that can include multiple subsearches. This search runs on a schedule determined by the timespan component of the rollup summary definition. It aggregates sets of raw metric data points using the default aggregation function, or whatever exception aggregation functions might be defined for certain metrics. The search strips out any dimensions that are not in the dimension filter, if one is defined for the summarization policy.

The summary-creating search spawns a separate subsearch for each group of metrics in the source index that have the same aggregate functions and dimension sets.

The search head gives new metric names to the aggregated metric data points produced by the summary-creating search. The new metric names follow this naming convention: <raw_metric_name>_mrollup_<aggregate_function>_<timespan_in_seconds>.

The summary-creating search also adds three new fields to each rolled up metric data point.

|Field name|Description|
|:--:|:--|
|rollup_source_index|The name of the source index|
|rollup_span|The period of the scheduled search that generated the rollup summary that this metric data point belongs to|
|rollup_aggregate|The function used in the creation of this aggregate data point|

#### Metric rollup summary generation example

Say you have a metric rollup policy on a source index named HomeIndex. The details of this metric rollup policy are as follows:

- It has a rollup summary definition that names SumIndex as its target index and provides 1h as the period of its background scheduled searches.
- It was created through Splunk Web, so it uses <avg> as its default aggregation method.
- It has a dimension filter that includes only these three dimensions: ip, app, and region. This means that the policy only rolls up metrics in HomeIndex that include one or more of these dimensions, and that the policy strips out all other dimensions from the aggregated metric data points that it creates for the metric rollup summary.
- It has an exception rule for a metric named Metric_C. This rule says that this metric is to be aggregated with the max function when the search head creates rollup metric data points for it.

After you save this policy, a summary-creating search begins running in the background on an hourly schedule. When the search runs, it spawns a subsearch for each metric on HomeIndex that has the included dimensions among its dimension sets. These subsearches produce a single aggregate metric data point each time they run. This means that if an eligible metric has 75 data points indexed over the past hour on HomeIndex, those 75 data points are aggregated into a single metric data point by the rollup search job.

All of these aggregate metric data points are stored on SumIndex. Each point is an aggregation of the metric data points that came in over the past hour for an eligible HomeIndex metric. The background search gives the SumIndex summary metric data points new metric names that reflect their origins, but which also clearly identify them as rollup metric data points.

To continue the example, let us say that on HomeIndex, you have three metrics: metric_A, metric_B, and metric_C. They have different combinations of dimensions, and metric_C has the exception rule which requires that its metric data points be aggregated differently than the others. The following table describes these metrics in terms of the dimensions they contain, the function used for their aggregation, and the metric_name their rolled up metric data points are given.

|metric_name on source index|Includes ip dimension?|Includes app dimension?|Includes region dimension?|Aggregation function|metric_name on target index|
|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--|
|metric_A|Yes|Yes|Yes|avg (default)|metric_A_mrollup_avg_3600s|
|metric_B|No|No|No|n/a|Not summarized because it lacks the required dimensions.|
|metric_C|Yes|No|Yes|max (exception rule)|metric_C_mrollup_max_3600s|

>> The data points for a metric are rolled up by the rollup summary search as long as they all share the same combination of included dimensions. In the previous example, all of the data points for metric_C get rolled up because they all have ip and region. But if the some of the data points belonging to a metric have an included dimension while other data points belonging to that metric lack that included dimension, none of the data points for that metric get rolled up.

Later, you can search SumIndex in exactly the same way that you currently search HomeIndex. You can run faster searches over longer periods of time because the searches are running across smaller sets of metric data points that only have one to three dimension fields.

You can also arrange to store the metrics in SumIndex for longer periods of time than you might store their corresponding metrics on HomeIndex because they take up less space on disk.

## Create and edit metric rollup policies with Splunk Web

This topic shows you how to create or edit a metric rollup policy with Splunk Web.

### Create a new metric rollup policy for a metric index

Prerequisites

- See Roll up metrics data for faster search performance and increased storage capacity for a conceptual overview of metric rollup policies.
- A metric rollup policy requires the existence of a source metric index and one or more target metric indexes. These indexes must be discoverable on the search head. See Index prerequisites for metric rollup policies.
- In order to create metric rollup policies with Splunk Web, your role must have the list_metrics_catalog and edit_metrics_rollup capabilities. See About defining roles with capabilities in Securing Splunk Enterprise.

Steps

1. Select Settings > Indexes to open the Indexes listing page.
2. Find a metrics index that you want to define a metric rollup policy for and click its Edit link. Metrics indexes that do not have rollup policies have an icon that looks like a measuring stick: This icon looks like a small measuring stick.
3. Scroll down to the bottom of the Edit dialog. Under Rollup Policy, click Create a new policy.
4. Define a rollup summary. Select a target index and a time range.

|Setting|Description|
|:--:|:--|
|Target index|This is the metric index that the rollup summary will be stored on. The drop-down displays only metric indexes.|
|Time range|This setting provides the period of the search that populates the rollup summary with aggregated metric data points.|

5. (Optional) Click Add another summary to add an additional rollup summary.
6. (Optional) Define a dimension filter.

Select either Included Dimensions or Excluded Dimensions. Then click in the dimension field to select one or more dimensions. The dimension list is limited to dimensions that were indexed by the source index in the past 24 hours.

|Setting|Description|
|:--:|:--|
|Included Dimensions|Select to indicate that the listed dimensions are the only dimensions from the source metric that should be in the rollup metric produced by the metric rollup policy. In addition, metrics in the source index that do not have these dimensions will not be rolled up.|
|Excluded Dimensions|Select to indicate that the rollup metrics produced by the metric rollup policy will have of the dimensions in the source metrics except for the listed dimensions. Source metrics that only have some combination of the excluded dimensions will not be rolled up.|

7. (Optional) Click Add exception rule to define an exception rule.
An exception rule enables you to override the default aggregation function for a specific metric. Metric rollup policies can have multiple exception rules.

|Setting|Description|
|:--:|:--:|
|Exception Metric|Select a metric that needs a different aggregation function from the default. The list displays only metrics that have been indexed by the source index within the past 24 hours.|
|Aggregation|Select an alternate aggregation function for the metric.|

8. (Optional) Click General Policy to return to the general policy settings.
9. Click Create policy to save your new policy.
If you are editing your policy, click Edit policy to save your changes.

On the Indexes listing page, metrics that have a metric rollup policy have an icon that looks two square plates being pushed together, as if to compress something between them: Rolled up metrics index icon.png

### Change the default aggregation

When you create metric rollup policies through Splunk Web, they have avg as their default aggregation function. The summary-creating search applies this default aggregation function to the metrics it finds in the source metric index, save those metrics that have exception rules defined for them.

You cannot change this default aggregation function through the UI, but you can change it for specific metric rollup policies if you have access to metric_rollups.conf. See Manage metric rollup policies through configuration files.

## Manage metric rollup policies with configuration files

If you have access to the configuration files for your deployment, you can manually configure metric rollup policies for your source metric indexes. This method gives you a small amount of extra flexibility that you do not have when designing rollup policies with Splunk Web: You can define a default aggregation function for the metric rollup policy that is not <avg>.

See Roll up metrics data for faster search performance and increased storage capacity for a conceptual overview of metric rollup policies.

>> You should have already identified or created a source metric index and one or more target metric indexes before you create a metric rollup policy configuration. These indexes must be discoverable on the search head. If you use distributed search you have to create stand-in indexes and set up data forwarding to enable metric rollup policies.

See Index prerequisites for metric rollup policies.

### Metric rollup feature extensions that are not available in Splunk Web

When you manage metric rollup policies through direct edits to configuration files, you can take advantage of optional feature extensions that are not yet available in Splunk Web.

<table>
<tr><td>Extended feature</td><td>In Splunk Web</td><td>Through configuration file edits</td><td>Setting</td></tr>
<tr><td>Change the default aggregation function</td><td>The default aggregation function for a new rollup policy is fixed to avg. There is no way to change this in Splunk Web.</td><td>You can change the default aggregation function to one or more aggregation functions. The search head rolls up aggregated metrics for each function you specify.</td><td>defaultAggregation</td></tr>
<tr><td>Metric filtering</td><td>You cannot design a rollup policy that filters specific metrics out of the resulting rollup summaries.</td><td>You can identify a set of metrics that are specfically included in or excluded from the summaries generated by the rollup policy.</td><td>metricList and metricListType</td></tr>
<tr><td>Multiple aggregation functions for metric exclusion rules</td><td>You can only specify one alternate aggregation function for a metric.</td><td>You can define exclusion rules that specify two or more alternate aggregation functions for a metric.</td><td>aggregation.&lt;metric_name&gt;</td></tr>
</table>

You can also manage this extended functionality through REST API operations on the metric rollup endpoints. See Metrics Catalog endpoint descriptions in the REST API Reference Manual.

### Specify a metric rollup policy stanza in metric_rollups.conf

To configure a metric rollup policy you need to add a stanza to your metric_rollups.conf file.

The configuration syntax for a metric rollup policy stanza is as follows:

```properties
[index:<Metric Index Name>]
defaultAggregation = <'#' separated list of aggregation functions>
rollup.&lt;summary number&gt;.rollupIndex = &lt;string Index name&gt;
rollup.&lt;summary number&gt;.span = &lt;time range string&gt;
metricList = <comma-separated list of metrics>
metricListType = <excluded/included>
dimensionList = <comma-separated list of dimensions>
dimensionListType = <excluded/included>
aggregation.&lt;metric_name&gt; = <'#' separated list of aggregation functions>
```

The following table defines these settings. It explains which settings are required and which are optional.

<table>
<tr><td>Setting</td><td>Value</td><td>Required?</td><td>Description</td><td>Default Value</td></tr>
<tr><td>[index:&lt;Metric Index Name&gt;]</td><td>A name of a source metric index.</td><td>Yes</td><td>This is the stanza header. It names the source metric index to which the metric rollup policy belongs.</td><td>n/a</td></tr>
<tr><td>defaultAggregation</td><td>A list of aggregation functions, separated by # characters.</td><td>Yes</td><td>This setting provides the set of aggregation functions that the rollup search uses when it aggregates the metric data points in the source metric index for a rollup summary. The defaultAggregation can be overruled for specific metrics by the aggregation.&lt;metric_name&gt; setting. This setting supports the following functions: avg, count, max, median, min, perc&lt;int&gt;, and sum.</td><td>avg</td></tr>
<tr><td>rollup.&lt;summary number&gt;.rollupIndex</td><td>The name of the target index for the rollup.</td><td>Yes</td><td>This setting is one half of a rollup summary definition. Both halves of a rollup summary definition should have the same &lt;summary number&gt;. To be valid, a metric rollup policy stanza must include at least one full rollup summary definition. The &lt;string Index name&gt; is the name of the target metric index where the summary is stored. This setting is required. Do not leave it blank.</td><td>summary number = 1, string index name = Metric Index Name from header</td></tr>
<tr><td>rollup.&lt;summary number&gt;.span</td><td>A time range string.</td><td>Yes</td><td>This setting is one half of a rollup summary definition. Both halves of a rollup summary definition should have the same &lt;summary number&gt;. A metric rollup policy can have multiple rollup summary definitions. To be valid, a metric rollup policy stanza must include at least one full rollup summary definition. The &lt;time range string&gt; is the period of the scheduled search that populates the rollup summary with rolled up metric data points that are aggregations of metrics in the source index. This setting has a lower boundary that is governed by the minspanallowed setting in limits.conf, which has a default setting of 300 seconds, or five minutes. This setting is required. Do not leave it blank.</td><td>summary number = 1, time range string = 1h</td></tr>
<tr><td>metricList</td><td>A comma-separated list of metric names.</td><td>No</td><td>Use this setting in conjunction with metricListType to create a filter at the search head that allows certain metrics to be rolled up but not others. All of the listed metrics should have metric data points in the source metric index.</td><td>Empty string</td></tr>
<tr><td>metricListType</td><td>[included | excluded]</td><td>No</td><td>Use this setting in conjunction with the metricList setting to create a filter at the search head that allows certain metrics to be rolled up but not others. When you set metricListType to excluded, the search head rolls up all available metrics from the source index except the metrics in metricsList. When you set metricListType to included, the search head rolls up only the metrics in metricsList and filters out all other metrics in the source index.</td><td>excluded</td></tr>
<tr><td>dimensionList</td><td>A comma-separated list of dimensions.</td><td>No</td><td>Use this setting in conjunction with dimensionListType to create a filter at the search head that allows certain dimensions to be rolled up but not others. All of the listed dimensions should appear in metric data points in the source index.</td><td>Empty string</td></tr>
<tr><td>dimensionListType</td><td>[included | excluded]</td><td>No</td><td>Use this setting in conjunction with the dimensionListsetting to create a filter at the search head that allows certain dimensions to be rolled up but not others. When you set dimensionListType to excluded the rollup metrics produced by the rollup policy include all available dimensions in the source index except the ones in the dimensionList. When you set dimensionListType to included, the rollup metrics produced by the rollup policy filter out all available dimensions except the ones in the dimensionList.</td><td>excluded</td></tr>
<tr><td>aggregation.&lt;list of aggregation functions&gt;</td><td>A list of aggregation functions, separated by # characters.</td><td>No</td><td>Use this optional setting to provide an exclusion rule for a specific metric_name in the source metric index. An exclusion rule defines a separate set of aggregation functions for the metric_name.
Use it to specify a different set of aggregation functions for that metric_name. A metric rollup policy can have multiple exclusion rules as long as they are each for a different metric_name. Do not set up an exclusion rule that uses the same set of aggregation functions as the defaultAggregation setting. This setting supports the following functions: avg, count, max, median, min, perc&lt;int&gt;, and sum.</td><td>Empty string</td></tr>
</table>

### Change the minimum span allowed for a rollup summarization search

The rollup.&lt;summary number&gt;.span setting has a lower boundary that is determined by the minspanallowed limit for the [rollup] stanza in limits.conf. minspanallowed is set to 300 seconds, or 5 minutes, by default. If you provide a span for a rollup summarization search that is lower than minspanallowed, you will see an error message.

This limit is meant to prevent you from setting up rollup summarization searches with a frequency that would likely lead to search concurrency problems, where scheduled searches fail to run when they should because there are too many searches running at once. However, if you need to change this limit, you can. Do not set minspanallowed to a value lower than 60 seconds.
