Customize drilldown actions
When a user clicks on a Chart, Table, EventsViewer, or SplunkMap view, the app performs a drilldown action:

For apps within Splunk Web: The default drilldown action redirects to the Search app to display a refined search corresponding to the location the user clicks (the row or cell, or point on a chart or map). Drilldown is enabled by default. You can disable drilldown entirely, or bypass the default action and use click event handlers for individual views to perform custom drilldown actions.
For apps outside of Splunk Web: The default drilldown action is undefined by default. However, you can create your own default drilldown action for your app using the same drilldown data (the search query and time range that corresponds to the location the user clicks) by defining an onDrilldown function in the SplunkJS Stack configuration. You can also use click event handlers for individual views to perform custom drilldown actions.
The Chart, Table, EventsViewer, and SplunkMap views have the following properties:

The drilldown property specifies whether drilldown actions are enabled. The value of the drilldown property can either be a Boolean or a string depending on the view.
The drilldownRedirect property indicates whether to enable the default drilldown action (redirecting to the Search app for Splunk Web apps, or the custom onDrilldown function for apps outside of Splunk Web).
For more about the properties for each view, see the Splunk Web Framework Component Reference.

For more about customizing drilldown actions, see How to customize drilldown actions using SplunkJS Stack.

For end-to-end examples, see:

Example: Drilldown properties using a Simple XML extension
Example: Drilldown properties in HTML Dashboards
Example: Drilldown properties using JavaScript for apps outside Splunk Web