# About the Splunk Enterprise Security Content Update Subscription Service

About the Splunk Enterprise Security Content Update
The Splunk Enterprise Security Content Update (ESCU) delivers security analysis guides called Analytic Stories to customers as part of a content subscription service. These Analytic Stories, which are authored by the Splunk Security Research Team, give you advice on how to use Splunk Enterprise Security (Splunk ES) to investigate and take action on new threats that Splunk ES detects in your environment. They contain the searches you need to implement the story in your own Splunk ES environment. Each story also provides an explanation of what the search achieves and how to convert a search into adaptive-response actions, where appropriate.

Download ESCU from Splunk ES Content Update from Splunkbase.



Release Notes for the Splunk Enterprise Security Content Update
Splunk Enterprise Security Content Update version 1.0.36 was released on March 6, 2019. It included improvements to:

Ensure content compatibility with Windows TA > 5.0.0
Update Windows/Sysmon searches to use the Endpoint Data Model.
Updated Analytic Stories
Analytic Story	Category	Description	Kill Chain Phase	ATT&CK	Update Type
Account Monitoring and Controls	Best Practices	A common attack technique is to leverage user accounts to gain unauthorized access to the target's network. This Analytic Story minimizes opportunities for attack by helping you actively manage creation/use/dormancy/deletion--the lifecycle of system and application accounts.	-	-	Updated search "Get Logon Rights Modifications For Endpoint"
Account Monitoring and Controls	Best Practices	A common attack technique is to leverage user accounts to gain unauthorized access to the target's network. This Analytic Story minimizes opportunities for attack by helping you actively manage creation/use/dormancy/deletion--the lifecycle of system and application accounts.	-	-	Updated search "Get Logon Rights Modifications For User"
Account Monitoring and Controls	Best Practices	A common attack technique is to leverage user accounts to gain unauthorized access to the target's network. This Analytic Story minimizes opportunities for attack by helping you actively manage creation/use/dormancy/deletion--the lifecycle of system and application accounts.	-	Valid Accounts	Updated search "Detect Excessive User Account Lockouts"
Account Monitoring and Controls	Best Practices	A common attack technique is to leverage user accounts to gain unauthorized access to the target's network. This Analytic Story minimizes opportunities for attack by helping you actively manage creation/use/dormancy/deletion--the lifecycle of system and application accounts.	-	Valid Accounts	Updated search "Detect Excessive Account Lockouts From Endpoint"
Collection and Staging	Adversary Tactics	Monitor for and investigate activities--such as suspicious writes to the Windows Recycling Bin or email servers sending high amounts of traffic to specific hosts, for example--that may indicate that an adversary is harvesting and exfiltrating sensitive data.	-	-	Updated search "Get Parent Process Info"
Collection and Staging	Adversary Tactics	Monitor for and investigate activities--such as suspicious writes to the Windows Recycling Bin or email servers sending high amounts of traffic to specific hosts, for example--that may indicate that an adversary is harvesting and exfiltrating sensitive data.	-	Collection, Data Staged	Updated search "Suspicious writes to windows Recycle Bin"
Credential Dumping	Adversary Tactics	Uncover activity consistent with credential dumping, a technique wherein attackers compromise systems and attempt to obtain and exfiltrate passwords. The threat actors use these pilfered credentials to further escalate privileges and spread throughout a target environment. The included searches in this Analytic Story are designed to identify attmpts to dump credentials.	Actions on Objectives	Credential Access, Credential Dumping	Updated search "Detect Mimikatz Via PowerShell And EventCode 4703"
Credential Dumping	Adversary Tactics	Uncover activity consistent with credential dumping, a technique wherein attackers compromise systems and attempt to obtain and exfiltrate passwords. The threat actors use these pilfered credentials to further escalate privileges and spread throughout a target environment. The included searches in this Analytic Story are designed to identify attmpts to dump credentials.	Actions on Objectives	Credential Access, Credential Dumping	Updated search "Detect Mimikatz Via PowerShell And EventCode 4663"
Credential Dumping	Adversary Tactics	Uncover activity consistent with credential dumping, a technique wherein attackers compromise systems and attempt to obtain and exfiltrate passwords. The threat actors use these pilfered credentials to further escalate privileges and spread throughout a target environment. The included searches in this Analytic Story are designed to identify attmpts to dump credentials.	-	-	Updated search "Get Parent Process Info"
DHS Report TA18-074A	Malware	Monitor for suspicious activities associated with DHS Technical Alert US-CERT TA18-074A. Some of the activities that adversaries used in these compromises included spearfishing attacks, malware, watering-hole domains, many and more.	Actions on Objectives	Execution, Command-Line Interface	Updated search "Detect PsExec With accepteula Flag"
DHS Report TA18-074A	Malware	Monitor for suspicious activities associated with DHS Technical Alert US-CERT TA18-074A. Some of the activities that adversaries used in these compromises included spearfishing attacks, malware, watering-hole domains, many and more.	-	-	Updated search "Previously seen command line arguments"
DHS Report TA18-074A	Malware	Monitor for suspicious activities associated with DHS Technical Alert US-CERT TA18-074A. Some of the activities that adversaries used in these compromises included spearfishing attacks, malware, watering-hole domains, many and more.	-	-	Updated search "Get Parent Process Info"
DHS Report TA18-074A	Malware	Monitor for suspicious activities associated with DHS Technical Alert US-CERT TA18-074A. Some of the activities that adversaries used in these compromises included spearfishing attacks, malware, watering-hole domains, many and more.	Command and Control, Actions on Objectives	Execution, Scripting, Persistence, Command-Line Interface	Updated search "First time seen command line argument"
DHS Report TA18-074A	Malware	Monitor for suspicious activities associated with DHS Technical Alert US-CERT TA18-074A. Some of the activities that adversaries used in these compromises included spearfishing attacks, malware, watering-hole domains, many and more.	Installation	Persistence, Privilege Escalation, New Service, Modify Existing Service, Defense Evasion, Disabling Security Tools	Updated search "Sc.exe Manipulating Windows Services"
DHS Report TA18-074A	Malware	Monitor for suspicious activities associated with DHS Technical Alert US-CERT TA18-074A. Some of the activities that adversaries used in these compromises included spearfishing attacks, malware, watering-hole domains, many and more.	Actions on Objectives	Defense Evasion, Modify Registry, Disabling Security Tools	Updated search "Suspicious Reg.exe Process"
Disabling Security Tools	Adversary Tactics	Looks for activities and techniques associated with the disabling of security tools on a Windows system, such as suspicious reg.exe processes, processes launching netsh, and many others.	-	-	Updated search "Get Parent Process Info"
Disabling Security Tools	Adversary Tactics	Looks for activities and techniques associated with the disabling of security tools on a Windows system, such as suspicious reg.exe processes, processes launching netsh, and many others.	Installation	Persistence, Privilege Escalation, New Service, Modify Existing Service, Defense Evasion, Disabling Security Tools	Updated search "Sc.exe Manipulating Windows Services"
Disabling Security Tools	Adversary Tactics	Looks for activities and techniques associated with the disabling of security tools on a Windows system, such as suspicious reg.exe processes, processes launching netsh, and many others.	Installation, Actions on Objectives	Defense Evasion, Disabling Security Tools	Updated search "Attempt To Stop Security Service"
Disabling Security Tools	Adversary Tactics	Looks for activities and techniques associated with the disabling of security tools on a Windows system, such as suspicious reg.exe processes, processes launching netsh, and many others.	Actions on Objectives	Defense Evasion, Modify Registry, Disabling Security Tools	Updated search "Suspicious Reg.exe Process"
Emotet Malware (TA18-201A)	Malware	Detect rarely used executables, specific registry paths that may confer malware survivability and persistence, instances where cmd.exe is used to launch script interpreters, and other indicators that the Emotet financial malware has compromised your environment.	-	-	Updated search "Get Parent Process Info"
Hidden Cobra Malware	Malware	Monitor for and investigate activities, including the creation or deletion of hidden shares and file writes, that may be evidence of infiltration by North Korean government-sponsored cybercriminals. Details of this activity were reported in DHS Report TA-18-149A.	-	-	Updated search "Previously seen command line arguments"
Hidden Cobra Malware	Malware	Monitor for and investigate activities, including the creation or deletion of hidden shares and file writes, that may be evidence of infiltration by North Korean government-sponsored cybercriminals. Details of this activity were reported in DHS Report TA-18-149A.	-	-	Updated search "Get Parent Process Info"
Hidden Cobra Malware	Malware	Monitor for and investigate activities, including the creation or deletion of hidden shares and file writes, that may be evidence of infiltration by North Korean government-sponsored cybercriminals. Details of this activity were reported in DHS Report TA-18-149A.	Command and Control, Actions on Objectives	Execution, Scripting, Persistence, Command-Line Interface	Updated search "First time seen command line argument"
Lateral Movement	Adversary Tactics	Detect and investigate tactics, techniques, and procedures around how attackers move laterally within the enterprise. Because lateral movement can expose the adversary to detection, it should be an important focus for security analysts.	Actions on Objectives	Lateral Movement, Pass the Hash	Updated search "Detect Activity Related to Pass the Hash Attacks"
Lateral Movement	Adversary Tactics	Detect and investigate tactics, techniques, and procedures around how attackers move laterally within the enterprise. Because lateral movement can expose the adversary to detection, it should be an important focus for security analysts.	Actions on Objectives	Persistence, Lateral Movement, Execution, Scheduled Task, Remote Services	Updated search "Schtasks scheduling job on remote system"
Netsh Abuse	Abuse	Detect activities and various techniques associated with the abuse of netsh.exe, which can disable local firewall settings or set up a remote connection to a host from an infected system.	-	-	Updated search "Get Parent Process Info"
Orangeworm Attack Group	Malware	Detect activities and various techniques associated with the Orangeworm Attack Group, a group that frequently targets the healthcare industry.	-	-	Updated search "Previously seen command line arguments"
Orangeworm Attack Group	Malware	Detect activities and various techniques associated with the Orangeworm Attack Group, a group that frequently targets the healthcare industry.	-	-	Updated search "Get Parent Process Info"
Orangeworm Attack Group	Malware	Detect activities and various techniques associated with the Orangeworm Attack Group, a group that frequently targets the healthcare industry.	Command and Control, Actions on Objectives	Execution, Scripting, Persistence, Command-Line Interface	Updated search "First time seen command line argument"
Orangeworm Attack Group	Malware	Detect activities and various techniques associated with the Orangeworm Attack Group, a group that frequently targets the healthcare industry.	Installation	Persistence, Privilege Escalation, New Service, Modify Existing Service, Defense Evasion, Disabling Security Tools	Updated search "Sc.exe Manipulating Windows Services"
Possible Backdoor Activity Associated With MUDCARP Espionage Campaigns	Adversary Tactics	Monitor your environment for suspicious behaviors that resemble the techniques employed by the MUDCARP threat group.	-	-	Updated search "Previously seen command line arguments"
Possible Backdoor Activity Associated With MUDCARP Espionage Campaigns	Adversary Tactics	Monitor your environment for suspicious behaviors that resemble the techniques employed by the MUDCARP threat group.	-	-	Updated search "Get Parent Process Info"
Possible Backdoor Activity Associated With MUDCARP Espionage Campaigns	Adversary Tactics	Monitor your environment for suspicious behaviors that resemble the techniques employed by the MUDCARP threat group.	Command and Control, Actions on Objectives	Execution, Scripting.
Known Issues
There are no known issues in version 1.0.36.

Bug Fixes
Fixed markdown rendering errors in UI
Fix bug in search bar for Analytic Story details searching wrong timeframe
Updated time preset to 24 hours in the search window
Updated searches to ensure compatibility with Windows TA >5.0.0 by using eventtype=wineventlog_security


