Use the Splunk Enterprise Security Content Update
From the Splunk Enterprise Security menu bar, select the Analytic Story Detail view to navigate to the following pages:

Content Library to view the analytic stories and search summaries.
Analytic Story Detail to view the analytic story details and run searches.
Feedback Center to send feedback directly to the Splunk security research team.
Usage Details to see what your users are doing inside your instance of the Splunk Enterprise Security Content Update Subscription Service (ESCU).
Content Library
Access the Analytic Stories Stats tab to explore the analytic stories included with ESCU using the Category, CIS Critical Security Control or Kill Chain Phase mapping.

Access the Search Summary tab to see the searches associated with an analytic story and explore them based on their CIS Critical Security Control mapping, or by search type.

Analytic Story Detail
Access the Analytic Story Detail view to explore the analytic stories which provide guidance on how to use Splunk ES to address a particular threat. You an use the analytic stories as follows:

To configure and run an analytic story search in your Splunk ES environment, click Configure in ES.
To test all of the detection searches included in an analytic story directly against your data, click Run Story.
Each analytic story includes information about the searches it uses. ESCU categorizes stories according to the table below.

Category	Analytic stories
Malware	Brand Monitoring 
Data Protection 
Host Redirection 
Lateral Movement 
Malicious PowerShell 
Ransomware 
SQL Injection 
Suspicious DNS Traffic 
Suspicious Emails 
Suspicious WMI Use 
Unusual Processes 
Windows Log Manipulation 
Windows Persistence Techniques
Known vulnerabilities	Apache Struts Vulnerability 
DNS Amplification Attacks
JBOSS Vulnerability
Monitor for Updates
Splunk Enterprise Vulnerability
Best practices	Account Monitoring and Controls 
Asset Tracking
Router & Infrastructure Security
Monitor Backup Solution
Monitor for Unauthorized Software
Use of Cleartext Protocols
Prohibited Traffic Allowed or Protocol Mismatch
An Analytic Story is comprised of narrative that provides an assessment of the Security Threat and how it helps detect and investigate it using Splunk Enterprise Security. In addition it provides a Summary of how the story maps to the following:

ATT&ck, an adversary behavior model that describes the actions an adversary might take.
Kill-Chain, a model that identifies the phases an adversary must complete to achieve their objective.
CIS Critical Security Controls
Data Models that are referenced within the searches and that need to be populated.
Technologies, example technologies that map to the data models used in Splunk ES.
References, external sources supporting analytic story research.
An Analytic Story includes the following searches that fall into one of four categories:

Detection searches identify indicators of a potential threat.
Context searches advise you on context-specific asset and identify information that you need to gather for an investigation.
Investigative searches advise you on the additional information you need to gather to investigate a threat and determine its impact within your environment.
Supporting searches support the detection searches.
Select any search to view its search name, description, kill chain phase, and details.

Configure an Analytic Story in Splunk Enterprise Security
From the Detection search, select Configure in ES to set up the Detection search as a correlation search in Enterprise Security. Any modification to the SPL performed within the Analytic Story view must be copied over manually.
To add the Context and Investigate searches as Adaptive Response actions for notable events generated by the Detection search:
Add the ESCU-Context response action to run context searches associated with the analytic story and streamline the investigation process.
Add the ESCU-Investigate response action to run investigation searches associated with the analytic story.
Click Save.
Feedback Center
Access the Feedback Center to send feedback directly to the Splunk security research team. Use the feedback form to request help with a specific analytic story or make suggestions for new analytic stories or searches. The Splunk security research team reviews all submissions.

To use the Feedback Center, your search head must be configured with mail server details. See Configure email notification for your Splunk instance in the Splunk Enterprise Alerting Manual.

Usage Details
Access Usage Details to see how your team is using your instance of the Splunk Enterprise Security Content Update Subscription Service. You can access details such as:

The searches your team most often runs
The types of searches your team runs, including the name of the search and the average and total run times