# MANAGE STATE

    Manage state with the App Key Value Store
    About KV Store collections
    Use configuration files to create a KV Store collection
    Use lookups with KV Store data
    Use the REST API to manage KV Store collections and data
    Debug slow operations and monitor KV Store activity
    Configure and deploy KV Store
    How to migrate your app from using CSV files to KV Store


Manage state with the App Key Value Store
The App Key Value Store (or simply, KV Store) feature of Splunk Enterprise provides a way to save and retrieve data within your Splunk apps, thereby enabling you to manage and maintain the state of the application.

The KV Store lets you:

Perform Create-Read-Update-Delete (CRUD) operations on individual records using the Splunk REST API and lookups using the Splunk search language.
Define a set of typed fields for your data.
Apply role-based access to control which users are allowed to access and manage data.
Access key-value data across your search head cluster.
Perform distributed search-based lookups on the index tier (replication must first be enabled per collection).
Perform automatic lookups (replication must first be enabled per collection).
Back up and restore data.

Scenarios
Here are some examples that show how Splunk apps might use the KV Store:

Tracking workflow in an incident-review system that moves an issue from one user to another.
Keeping a list of environment assets provided by users.
Controlling a job queue.
Managing a UI session by storing the user or application state as the user interacts with the app.
Storing user metadata.
Caching results from search queries by Splunk or an external data store.
Storing checkpoint data for modular inputs.

The KV Store vs. CSV files
The KV Store adds a new lookup type to use with your apps: "kvstore". Before the KV Store feature was added, you might have used CSV-based lookups to augment data within your apps. Consider the following tradeoffs to decide which of your scenarios are better suited to use the KV Store or CSV-based lookups.

Pros	Cons
KV Store	
Enables per-record insert/updates ("upserts").
Allows optional data type enforcement on write operations.
Allows you to define field accelerations to improve search performance.
Provides REST API access to the data collection.
Does not support case-insensitive field lookups.
CSV	
Performs well for files that are small or rarely modified.
CSV files are easier to modify manually.
Integrating with other applications such as Microsoft Excel is easier because CSV is a standard format.
Supports case-sensitive field lookups.
Requires a full rewrite of a file for edit operations.
Does not support REST API access.
Therefore, depending on your use cases:

The KV Store is designed for large collections, and is the easiest way to develop an application that uses key-value data.
The KV Store is a good solution when data requires user interaction using the REST interface and when you have a frequently-changing data set.
A CSV-based lookup is a good solution when the data set is small or changes infrequently, and when distributed search is required.

Using the KV Store (for app developers)
For a walkthrough of how to use the KV Store, see the Tutorial: Use KV Store with a simple app.

For details about adding App Key Value Store features to an app, see the following topics:

About KV Store collections
Use configuration files to create a KV Store collection
Use lookups with KV Store data
Use the REST API to manage KV Store collections and data
Debug slow operations and monitor KV Store activity
Configure and deploy KV Store
Migrate your app from using CSV files to KV Store

Using the KV Store (for administrators)
For details about administering the App Key Value Store in Splunk Enterprise, see the following topics:

About the app key value store in the Admin Manual
KV store: Instance in the Distributed Management Console Manual
KV store: Deployment in the Distributed Management Console Manual
Configure KV Store lookups in the Knowledge Manager Manual